Hunger


Ephraim becomes Manasseh [Hosea 13:6]
	"But I am the LORD your God
		from the land of Egypt;
	you know no God but me,
		and besides me there is no savior.
	It was I who knew you in the wilderness,
		in the land of drought;
*	but when they had grazed, they became full,
		they were filled, and their heart was lifted up;
		therefore they forgot me.
	So I am to them like a lion;
		like a leopard I will lurk beside the way.
	I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs;
		I will tear open their breast,
	and there I will devour them like a lion,
		as a wild beast would rip them open."

{
	plural pronouns
	bio reset
	experience & doctrine - inextricably linked
}


Made Known [Deut 8:3]
	"And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the LORD."

{
	example
	experience
}


Repentance (a change of mind) [Ezra 8:21-23]
	"Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our goods. For I was ashamed to ask the king for a band of soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemy on our way, since we had told the king, “The hand of our God is for good on all who seek him, and the power of his wrath is against all who forsake him.” So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty."

{
	petitioning the court [Php 4:6] ~ AND
}


Aseity [Ex 3:12-15]
	But Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?” He said, “But I will be with you, and this shall be the sign for you, that I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain.”

	Then Moses said to God, “If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ what shall I say to them?” God said to Moses, “I AM WHO I AM.” And he said, “Say this to the people of Israel, ‘I AM has sent me to you.’”

{
	ambassadors, 3rd commandment
	serving at His pleasure
}


Body Building [Acts 2:42-47]
	"And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved."
