* Leaders are readers

King David

... often quoting others

... able to synthesize truth into circumstance


* Leaders are not Managers
- where does the ladder go vs how to use it

contact lens story, this is where the light is


* Leaders need help

Moses and 75 elders, Jethro helped

prioritizing

Eisenhower matrix
- define important
- define urgent

apostles & deacons in Acts 6
- to the apostles, service was urgent but not important [to them]


* Leaders make problems smaller

Charles Spurgeon: "They may peach the gospel better, but they do not peach a better gospel."


* Leaders are humble

John Wesley vs George Whitefield
- these men, both leaders in their camp, were publicly conflicted regarding pre-destination

“It is said that when Wesley and Whitefield were at odds on theology and ecclesiastical matters, one of Wesley’s adherents asked him, “Do you think we shall see Mr. Whitefield in heaven?” “No,” he answered, “I do not. I think he will be so near the Throne, and you and I so far away, that we shall not get within sight of him.” {From The Pastor amidst His Flock G. B. Wilcox 1890}

The desire for preeminence is the death knell of usefulness. Alistair Begg


real leadership is uncommon

The most improper job of any man, even saints (who at any rate were at least unwilling to take it on), is bossing other men. Not one in a million is fit for it, and least of all those who seek the opportunity. J.R.R. Tolkien


leaders execute

Mon centre cède, ma droite recule, situation excellente, j'attaque. Ferdinand Foch

... deliberately

... against odds
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.

the probability of success is a factor, but not the only factor, and not the most important factor


leaders lift others

A grandfather talking to his young grandson tells the boy he has two wolves inside of him, struggling with each other: The first is the wolf of peace, love and kindness. The other is the wolf of fear, greed and hatred. "Which wolf will win, grandfather?" asks the boy. The grandfather replied, "Whichever one you feed."


Five C's of leadership

character
chemistry
cadence
?
?
