Curation


Genesis 48:15+
	“The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked,
the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day,
16 the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the boys;
and in them let my name be carried on, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac;
and let them grow into a multitude[fn] in the midst of the earth.”

Exodus 15:1-3,11-12
	“I will sing to the LORD, for he has triumphed gloriously;
the horse and his rider[fn] he has thrown into the sea.
 The LORD is my strength and my song,
and he has become my salvation;
this is my God, and I will praise him,
my father’s God, and I will exalt him.
 The LORD is a man of war;
the LORD is his name.
	“Who is like you, O LORD, among the gods?
Who is like you, majestic in holiness,
awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders?
 You stretched out your right hand;
the earth swallowed them.

Leviticus 19:2-4,
	“Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy. 3 Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am the LORD your God. 4 Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves any gods of cast metal: I am the LORD your God.

Numbers 6:24+
	The LORD bless you and keep you;
	The LORD make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you;
	The LORD lift up his countenance[fn] upon you and give you peace.
 	“So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them.”

Deuteronomy 32:4-9
	“The Rock, his work is perfect,
for all his ways are justice.
A God of faithfulness and without iniquity,
just and upright is he.
5 They have dealt corruptly with him;
they are no longer his children because they are blemished;
they are a crooked and twisted generation.
6 Do you thus repay the LORD,
you foolish and senseless people?
Is not he your father, who created you,
who made you and established you?
7 Remember the days of old;
consider the years of many generations;
ask your father, and he will show you,
your elders, and they will tell you.
8 When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance,
when he divided mankind,
he fixed the borders[fn] of the peoples
according to the number of the sons of God.[fn]
9 But the LORD’s portion is his people,
Jacob his allotted heritage.

Joshua 24:14-15
	“Now therefore fear the LORD and serve him in sincerity and in faithfulness. Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the River and in Egypt, and serve the LORD. 15 And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the LORD, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.”

Judges 5:2-5
	“That the leaders took the lead in Israel,
that the people offered themselves willingly,
bless the LORD!
	“Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes;
to the LORD I will sing;
I will make melody to the LORD, the God of Israel.
 	“LORD, when you went out from Seir,
when you marched from the region of Edom,
the earth trembled
and the heavens dropped,
yes, the clouds dropped water.
	The mountains quaked before the LORD,
even Sinai before the LORD, the God of Israel.

Ruth 1:16-17,19
	“Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. 17 Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. May the LORD do so to me and more also if anything but death parts me from you.”
	So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem.

1 Samuel 2:1-8
	“My heart exults in the LORD;
my horn is exalted in the LORD.
My mouth derides my enemies,
because I rejoice in your salvation.
	“There is none holy like the LORD:
for there is none besides you;
there is no rock like our God.
	Talk no more so very proudly,
let not arrogance come from your mouth;
for the LORD is a God of knowledge,
and by him actions are weighed.
	The bows of the mighty are broken,
but the feeble bind on strength.
	Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread,
but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger.
The barren has borne seven,
but she who has many children is forlorn.
	The LORD kills and brings to life;
he brings down to Sheol and raises up.
	The LORD makes poor and makes rich;
he brings low and he exalts.
	He raises up the poor from the dust;
he lifts the needy from the ash heap
to make them sit with princes
and inherit a seat of honor.
For the pillars of the earth are the LORD’s,
and on them he has set the world.

2 Samuel 22:2-7
	“The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer,
my[fn] God, my rock, in whom I take refuge,
my shield, and the horn of my salvation,
my stronghold and my refuge,
my savior; you save me from violence.
	I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised,
and I am saved from my enemies.
	“For the waves of death encompassed me,
the torrents of destruction assailed me;[fn]
	the cords of Sheol entangled me;
the snares of death confronted me.
	“In my distress I called upon the LORD;
to my God I called.
From his temple he heard my voice,
and my cry came to his ears.

1 Kings 8:27-30
	“But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you; how much less this house that I have built!  Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O LORD my God, listening to the cry and to the prayer that your servant prays before you this day,  that your eyes may be open night and day toward this house, the place of which you have said, ‘My name shall be there,’ that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.  And listen to the plea of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And listen in heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.

2 Kings 19: 15-19
	“O LORD, the God of Israel, enthroned above the cherubim, you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth. 16 Incline your ear, O LORD, and hear; open your eyes, O LORD, and see; and hear the words of _Sins-Many-Brothers_, which he has sent to mock the living God.  Truly, O LORD, the kings of _Their-Own-Wisdom_ have laid waste the nations and their lands and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.  So now, O LORD our God, save us, please, from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you, O LORD, are God alone.”

1 Chronicles 16:8-18
	Oh give thanks to the LORD; call upon his name;
make known his deeds among the peoples!
	Sing to him, sing praises to him;
tell of all his wondrous works!
	Glory in his holy name;
let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
	Seek the LORD and his strength;
seek his presence continually!
	Remember the wondrous works that he has done,
his miracles and the judgments he uttered,
	O offspring of Israel his servant,
children of Jacob, his chosen ones!
	He is the LORD our God;
his judgments are in all the earth.
	Remember his covenant forever,
the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
	the covenant that he made with Abraham,
his sworn promise to Isaac,
	which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute,
to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
	saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan,
as your portion for an inheritance.”

2 Chronicles 20:6-9
	 “O LORD, God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations. In your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you.  Did you not, our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and give it forever to the descendants of Abraham your friend?  And they have lived in it and have built for you in it a sanctuary for your name, saying, ‘If disaster comes upon us, the sword, judgment,[fn] or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house and before you—for your name is in this house—and cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save.’

Ezra 9:6-9
	“O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift my face to you, my God, for our iniquities have risen higher than our heads, and our guilt has mounted up to the heavens.  From the days of our fathers to this day we have been in great guilt. And for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plundering, and to utter shame, as it is today.  But now for a brief moment favor has been shown by the LORD our God, to leave us a remnant and to give us a secure hold[fn] within his holy place, that our God may brighten our eyes and grant us a little reviving in our slavery.  For we are slaves. Yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery, but has extended to us his steadfast love

Nehemiah 9:6,32,31
	“You are the LORD, you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them; and you preserve all of them; and the host of heaven worships you.
	“Now, therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love, let not all the hardship seem little to you that has come upon us, upon our kings, our princes, our priests, our prophets, our fathers, and all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day. 33 Yet you have been righteous in all that has come upon us, for you have dealt faithfully and we have acted wickedly.
	Nevertheless, in your great mercies you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and merciful God.

Job 42:2-6
	“I know that you can do all things,
and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted.
	‘Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?’
Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand,
things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.
	‘Hear, and I will speak;
I will question you, and you make it known to me.’
	I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear,
but now my eye sees you;  therefore I despise myself,
and repent[fn] in dust and ashes.”

Psalm 51
	Have mercy on me,[fn] O God,
according to your steadfast love;
according to your abundant mercy
blot out my transgressions.
	Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity,
and cleanse me from my sin!
 
	For I know my transgressions,
and my sin is ever before me.
	Against you, you only, have I sinned
and done what is evil in your sight,
so that you may be justified in your words
and blameless in your judgment.
	Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity,
and in sin did my mother conceive me.
	Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being,
and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart.
 
	Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean;
wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
	Let me hear joy and gladness;
let the bones that you have broken rejoice.
	Hide your face from my sins,
and blot out all my iniquities.
	Create in me a clean heart, O God,
and renew a right[fn] spirit within me.
	Cast me not away from your presence,
and take not your Holy Spirit from me.
	Restore to me the joy of your salvation,
and uphold me with a willing spirit.

Proverbs 2:6-15
	the LORD gives wisdom;
from his mouth come knowledge and understanding;
	he stores up sound wisdom for the upright;
he is a shield to those who walk in integrity,
	guarding the paths of justice
and watching over the way of his saints.
	Then you will understand righteousness and justice
and equity, every good path;
	for wisdom will come into your heart,
and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul;
	discretion will watch over you,
understanding will guard you,
	delivering you from the way of evil,
from men of perverted speech,
	who forsake the paths of uprightness
to walk in the ways of darkness,
	who rejoice in doing evil
and delight in the perverseness of evil,
	men whose paths are crooked,
and who are devious in their ways.

Ecclesiastes 7:14-18
	God has made the one as well as the other, so that man may not find out anything that will be after him.  In my vain[fn] life I have seen everything. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his evildoing.  Be not overly righteous, and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself?  Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool. Why should you die before your time?  It is good that you should take hold of this, and from that withhold not your hand, for the one who fears God shall come out from both of them.

Song of Songs 2:4,8-10
	He brought me to the banqueting house,[fn]
and his banner over me was love.
	The voice of my beloved!
Behold, he comes, leaping over the mountains,
bounding over the hills.
	My beloved is like a gazelle
or a young stag.
	Behold, there he stands
behind our wall, gazing through the windows, looking through the lattice.
	My beloved speaks and says to me: “Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away,

Isaiah 53:1-6
	Who has believed what he has heard from us?[fn]
And to whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed?
	For he grew up before him like a young plant,
and like a root out of dry ground;
he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,
and no beauty that we should desire him.
	He was despised and rejected[fn] by men;
a man of sorrows,[fn] and acquainted with[fn] grief;[fn]
and as one from whom men hide their faces[fn]
he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
 
	Surely he has borne our griefs
and carried our sorrows;
yet we esteemed him stricken,
smitten by God, and afflicted.
	But he was pierced for our transgressions;
he was crushed for our iniquities;
upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,
and with his wounds we are healed.
	All we like sheep have gone astray;
we have turned—every one—to his own way;
and the LORD has laid on him
the iniquity of us all.

Isaiah 49:13-16
	Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth;
break forth, O mountains, into singing!
For the LORD has comforted his people
and will have compassion on his afflicted.
	But Zion said, “The LORD has forsaken me;
my Lord has forgotten me.”
 	“Can a woman forget her nursing child,
that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb?
Even these may forget,
yet I will not forget you.
16 Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands;
your walls are continually before me.

Jeremiah 31:33-34
	For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the LORD: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.  And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, ‘Know the LORD,’ for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the LORD. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.”

Malachi 3:17+
	“They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. 18 Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve him.

Matthew 13:24