At the risk of being presumptuous (though it's not really much of a risk) I would like to share what I have learned at the T4G conference.  This relates to our corporate worship which I believe it to be of vital importance.

Worship
  Congregational worship is comprised of preaching, readings/confessions, singing, and prayer (in order of intimacy.)  We do all of these things faithfully.  However, none of these should be impromptu (and only extemporaneously based on the skill of the provider.)

Curation
  1. Prayers should should be pre-written or planned in advance (read from the Bible or a book of prayers.)  In my not-so-humble opinion: only elders should pray unless it is scripted.
  2. Songs are teaching tools and, thus, should selected based on their theological content.  This means either songs that are directly from scripture (word for word) or are world-class, inspired poetry.  There is an immense wealth of material such that we should never lack for lyrics from any topic.  We do this already but I believe we need to learn to divorce the lyrics from the music in making selections.
  3. Material must be curated prior to use by the assembly.  This might mean a hymnal or prayer-book of our own; or rules by which to select such material.

Singing
  Martin Luther and Keith Getty both hold singing to be a primary congregational teaching tool.  

Music
  Music serves to support the congregation in singing.  It's purpose is to encourage and enable people to sing.  Unsung music is almost always pointless in a worship service.  Likewise, musicians should be chosen who are of sufficient skill so as to 1) not distract from Worship and 2) guide the singing.
  As there has been much discussion regarding musical styles I think it's important to remember that A) this depends heavily on the music leader and musicians and B) music is a tertiary issue; order of worship and logistics are much more important, secondary, issues in a Worship service.

Training
  The congregation needs to sing.  The congregation needs to be taught how to sing.
  I think an embedded choir should be established which meets regularly and is composed of anyone who loves to sing.  It's purpose would be to learn songs and then stand distributed among the congregation to help them learn songs.  This happens thusly via a choir "director":
    1. Exposition of doctrine and theology within a song's lyrics
    2. Discussion of when/why a particular song is used in a Worship service
    3. General ongoing discussions on the doctrine of worship and why we sing
    4. Learn the music with harmonies and variations
