Psalms	1:1	Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers;
Psalms	1:2	but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day and night.
Psalms	1:3	He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers.
Psalms	1:4	The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away.
Psalms	1:5	Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous;
Psalms	1:6	for the LORD knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish.
Psalms	2:1	Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain?
Psalms	2:2	The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD and against his anointed, saying,
Psalms	2:3	"Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us."
Psalms	2:4	He who sits in the heavens laughs; the Lord holds them in derision.
Psalms	2:5	Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying,
Psalms	2:6	"As for me, I have set my King on Zion, my holy hill."
Psalms	2:7	I will tell of the decree: The LORD said to me, "You are my Son; today I have begotten you.
Psalms	2:8	Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession.
Psalms	2:9	You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel."
Psalms	2:10	Now therefore, O kings, be wise; be warned, O rulers of the earth.
Psalms	2:11	Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
Psalms	2:12	Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him.
Psalms	3:1	O LORD, how many are my foes! Many are rising against me;
Psalms	3:2	many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. Selah
Psalms	3:3	But you, O LORD, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head.
Psalms	3:4	I cried aloud to the LORD, and he answered me from his holy hill. Selah
Psalms	3:5	I lay down and slept; I woke again, for the LORD sustained me.
Psalms	3:6	I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around.
Psalms	3:7	Arise, O LORD! Save me, O my God! For you strike all my enemies on the cheek; you break the teeth of the wicked.
Psalms	3:8	Salvation belongs to the LORD; your blessing be on your people! Selah
Psalms	4:1	Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness! You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer!
Psalms	4:2	O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Selah
Psalms	4:3	But know that the LORD has set apart the godly for himself; the LORD hears when I call to him.
Psalms	4:4	Be angry, and do not sin; ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent. Selah
Psalms	4:5	Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the LORD.
Psalms	4:6	There are many who say, "Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O LORD!"
Psalms	4:7	You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound.
Psalms	4:8	In peace I will both lie down and sleep; for you alone, O LORD, make me dwell in safety.
Psalms	5:1	Give ear to my words, O LORD; consider my groaning.
Psalms	5:2	Give attention to the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to you do I pray.
Psalms	5:3	O LORD, in the morning you hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch.
Psalms	5:4	For you are not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not dwell with you.
Psalms	5:5	The boastful shall not stand before your eyes; you hate all evildoers.
Psalms	5:6	You destroy those who speak lies; the LORD abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.
Psalms	5:7	But I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, will enter your house. I will bow down toward your holy temple in the fear of you.
Psalms	5:8	Lead me, O LORD, in your righteousness because of my enemies; make your way straight before me.
Psalms	5:9	For there is no truth in their mouth; their inmost self is destruction; their throat is an open grave; they flatter with their tongue.
Psalms	5:10	Make them bear their guilt, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out, for they have rebelled against you.
Psalms	5:11	But let all who take refuge in you rejoice; let them ever sing for joy, and spread your protection over them, that those who love your name may exult in you.
Psalms	5:12	For you bless the righteous, O LORD; you cover him with favor as with a shield.
Psalms	6:1	O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath.
Psalms	6:2	Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am languishing; heal me, O LORD, for my bones are troubled.
Psalms	6:3	My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O LORD--how long?
Psalms	6:4	Turn, O LORD, deliver my life; save me for the sake of your steadfast love.
Psalms	6:5	For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol who will give you praise?
Psalms	6:6	I am weary with my moaning; every night I flood my bed with tears; I drench my couch with my weeping.
Psalms	6:7	My eye wastes away because of grief; it grows weak because of all my foes.
Psalms	6:8	Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping.
Psalms	6:9	The LORD has heard my plea; the LORD accepts my prayer.
Psalms	6:10	All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment.
Psalms	7:1	O LORD my God, in you do I take refuge; save me from all my pursuers and deliver me,
Psalms	7:2	lest like a lion they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver.
Psalms	7:3	O LORD my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands,
Psalms	7:4	if I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause,
Psalms	7:5	let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust. Selah
Psalms	7:6	Arise, O LORD, in your anger; lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies; awake for me; you have appointed a judgment.
Psalms	7:7	Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you; over it return on high.
Psalms	7:8	The LORD judges the peoples; judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness and according to the integrity that is in me.
Psalms	7:9	Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, and may you establish the righteous--you who test the minds and hearts, O righteous God!
Psalms	7:10	My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart.
Psalms	7:11	God is a righteous judge, and a God who feels indignation every day.
Psalms	7:12	If a man does not repent, God will whet his sword; he has bent and readied his bow;
Psalms	7:13	he has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts.
Psalms	7:14	Behold, the wicked man conceives evil and is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies.
Psalms	7:15	He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made.
Psalms	7:16	His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own skull his violence descends.
Psalms	7:17	I will give to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the LORD, the Most High.
Psalms	8:1	O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens.
Psalms	8:2	Out of the mouth of babes and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.
Psalms	8:3	When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place,
Psalms	8:4	what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him?
Psalms	8:5	Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor.
Psalms	8:6	You have given him dominion over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet,
Psalms	8:7	all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field,
Psalms	8:8	the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas.
Psalms	8:9	O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth!
Psalms	9:1	I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds.
Psalms	9:2	I will be glad and exult in you; I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.
Psalms	9:3	When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence.
Psalms	9:4	For you have maintained my just cause; you have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment.
Psalms	9:5	You have rebuked the nations; you have made the wicked perish; you have blotted out their name forever and ever.
Psalms	9:6	The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins; their cities you rooted out; the very memory of them has perished.
Psalms	9:7	But the LORD sits enthroned forever; he has established his throne for justice,
Psalms	9:8	and he judges the world with righteousness; he judges the peoples with uprightness.
Psalms	9:9	The LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.
Psalms	9:10	And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O LORD, have not forsaken those who seek you.
Psalms	9:11	Sing praises to the LORD, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds!
Psalms	9:12	For he who avenges blood is mindful of them; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted.
Psalms	9:13	Be gracious to me, O LORD! See my affliction from those who hate me, O you who lift me up from the gates of death,
Psalms	9:14	that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation.
Psalms	9:15	The nations have sunk in the pit that they made; in the net that they hid their own foot has been caught.
Psalms	9:16	The LORD has made himself known; he has executed judgment; the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. Higgaion. Selah
Psalms	9:17	The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God.
Psalms	9:18	For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever.
Psalms	9:19	Arise, O LORD! Let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before you!
Psalms	9:20	Put them in fear, O LORD! Let the nations know that they are but men! Selah
Psalms	10:1	Why, O LORD, do you stand afar off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?
Psalms	10:2	In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised.
Psalms	10:3	For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD.
Psalms	10:4	In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, "There is no God."
Psalms	10:5	His ways prosper at all times; your judgments are on high, out of his sight; as for all his foes, he puffs at them.
Psalms	10:6	He says in his heart, "I shall not be moved; throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity."
Psalms	10:7	His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity.
Psalms	10:8	He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he murders the innocent. His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless;
Psalms	10:9	he lurks in ambush like a lion in his thicket; he lurks that he may seize the poor; he seizes the poor when he draws him into his net.
Psalms	10:10	The helpless are crushed, sink down, and fall by his might.
Psalms	10:11	He says in his heart, "God has forgotten, he has hidden his face, he will never see it."
Psalms	10:12	Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up your hand; forget not the afflicted.
Psalms	10:13	Why does the wicked renounce God and say in his heart, "You will not call to account"?
Psalms	10:14	But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands; to you the helpless commits himself; you have been the helper of the fatherless.
Psalms	10:15	Break the arm of the wicked and evildoer; call his wickedness to account till you find none.
Psalms	10:16	The LORD is king forever and ever; the nations perish from his land.
Psalms	10:17	O LORD, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear
Psalms	10:18	to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more.
Psalms	11:1	In the LORD I take refuge; how can you say to my soul, "Flee like a bird to your mountain,
Psalms	11:2	for behold, the wicked bend the bow; they have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart;
Psalms	11:3	if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?"
Psalms	11:4	The LORD is in his holy temple; the LORD's throne is in heaven; his eyes see, his eyelids test, the children of man.
Psalms	11:5	The LORD tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence.
Psalms	11:6	Let him rain coals on the wicked; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.
Psalms	11:7	For the LORD is righteous; he loves righteous deeds; the upright shall behold his face.
Psalms	12:1	Save, O LORD, for the godly one is gone; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man.
Psalms	12:2	Everyone utters lies to his neighbor; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak.
Psalms	12:3	May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts,
Psalms	12:4	those who say, "With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?"
Psalms	12:5	"Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise," says the LORD; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs."
Psalms	12:6	The words of the LORD are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times.
Psalms	12:7	You, O LORD, will keep them; you will guard us from this generation forever.
Psalms	12:8	On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man.
Psalms	13:1	How long, O LORD? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me?
Psalms	13:2	How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
Psalms	13:3	Consider and answer me, O LORD my God; light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death,
Psalms	13:4	lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed over him," lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken.
Psalms	13:5	But I have trusted in your steadfast love; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation.
Psalms	13:6	I will sing to the LORD, because he has dealt bountifully with me.
Psalms	14:1	The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none who does good.
Psalms	14:2	The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God.
Psalms	14:3	They have all turned aside; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one.
Psalms	14:4	Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the LORD?
Psalms	14:5	There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous.
Psalms	14:6	You would shame the plans of the poor, but the LORD is his refuge.
Psalms	14:7	Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalms	15:1	O LORD, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill?
Psalms	15:2	He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart;
Psalms	15:3	who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend;
Psalms	15:4	in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the LORD; who swears to his own hurt and does not change;
Psalms	15:5	who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.
Psalms	16:1	Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge.
Psalms	16:2	I say to the LORD, "You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you."
Psalms	16:3	As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight.
Psalms	16:4	The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply; their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips.
Psalms	16:5	The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot.
Psalms	16:6	The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance.
Psalms	16:7	I bless the LORD who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me.
Psalms	16:8	I have set the LORD always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.
Psalms	16:9	Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure.
Psalms	16:10	For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption.
Psalms	16:11	You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.
Psalms	17:1	Hear a just cause, O LORD; attend to my cry! Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit!
Psalms	17:2	From your presence let my vindication come! Let your eyes behold the right!
Psalms	17:3	You have tried my heart, you have visited me by night, you have tested me, and you will find nothing; I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress.
Psalms	17:4	With regard to the works of man, by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent.
Psalms	17:5	My steps have held fast to your paths; my feet have not slipped.
Psalms	17:6	I call upon you, for you will answer me, O God; incline your ear to me; hear my words.
Psalms	17:7	Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand.
Psalms	17:8	Keep me as the apple of your eye; hide me in the shadow of your wings,
Psalms	17:9	from the wicked who do me violence, my deadly enemies who surround me.
Psalms	17:10	They close their hearts to pity; with their mouths they speak arrogantly.
Psalms	17:11	They have now surrounded our steps; they set their eyes to cast us to the ground.
Psalms	17:12	He is like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush.
Psalms	17:13	Arise, O LORD! Confront him, subdue him! Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword,
Psalms	17:14	from men by your hand, O LORD, from men of the world whose portion is in this life. You fill their womb with treasure; they are satisfied with children, and they leave their abundance to their infants.
Psalms	17:15	As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness; when I awake, I shall be satisfied with your likeness.
Psalms	18:1	I love you, O LORD, my strength.
Psalms	18:2	The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.
Psalms	18:3	I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
Psalms	18:4	The cords of death encompassed me; the torrents of destruction assailed me;
Psalms	18:5	the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.
Psalms	18:6	In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears.
Psalms	18:7	Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry.
Psalms	18:8	Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him.
Psalms	18:9	He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under his feet.
Psalms	18:10	He rode on a cherub and flew; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind.
Psalms	18:11	He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water.
Psalms	18:12	Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds.
Psalms	18:13	The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones and coals of fire.
Psalms	18:14	And he sent out his arrows and scattered them; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them.
Psalms	18:15	Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
Psalms	18:16	He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters.
Psalms	18:17	He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
Psalms	18:18	They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
Psalms	18:19	He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me.
Psalms	18:20	The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me.
Psalms	18:21	For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
Psalms	18:22	For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me.
Psalms	18:23	I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt.
Psalms	18:24	So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight.
Psalms	18:25	With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;
Psalms	18:26	with the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous.
Psalms	18:27	For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down.
Psalms	18:28	For it is you who light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness.
Psalms	18:29	For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall.
Psalms	18:30	This God--his way is perfect; the word of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him.
Psalms	18:31	For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?--
Psalms	18:32	the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless.
Psalms	18:33	He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights.
Psalms	18:34	He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
Psalms	18:35	You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great.
Psalms	18:36	You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip.
Psalms	18:37	I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed.
Psalms	18:38	I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet.
Psalms	18:39	For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me.
Psalms	18:40	You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed.
Psalms	18:41	They cried for help, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
Psalms	18:42	I beat them fine as dust before the wind; I cast them out like the mire of the streets.
Psalms	18:43	You delivered me from strife with the people; you made me the head of the nations; people whom I had not known served me.
Psalms	18:44	As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me; foreigners came cringing to me.
Psalms	18:45	Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses.
Psalms	18:46	The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation--
Psalms	18:47	the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me,
Psalms	18:48	who delivered me from my enemies; yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me; you rescued me from the man of violence.
Psalms	18:49	For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing to your name.
Psalms	18:50	Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever.
Psalms	19:1	The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork.
Psalms	19:2	Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.
Psalms	19:3	There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard.
Psalms	19:4	Their measuring line goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun,
Psalms	19:5	which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy.
Psalms	19:6	Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat.
Psalms	19:7	The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple;
Psalms	19:8	the precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes;
Psalms	19:9	the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the LORD are true, and righteous altogether.
Psalms	19:10	More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb.
Psalms	19:11	Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward.
Psalms	19:12	Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults.
Psalms	19:13	Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.
Psalms	19:14	Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my rock and my redeemer.
Psalms	20:1	May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob protect you!
Psalms	20:2	May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion!
Psalms	20:3	May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices! Selah
Psalms	20:4	May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans!
Psalms	20:5	May we shout for joy over your salvation, and in the name of our God set up our banners! May the LORD fulfill all your petitions!
Psalms	20:6	Now I know that the LORD saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand.
Psalms	20:7	Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the LORD our God.
Psalms	20:8	They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright.
Psalms	20:9	O LORD, save the king! May he answer us when we call.
Psalms	21:1	O LORD, in your strength the king rejoices, and in your salvation how greatly he exults!
Psalms	21:2	You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah
Psalms	21:3	For you meet him with rich blessings; you set a crown of fine gold upon his head.
Psalms	21:4	He asked life of you; you gave it to him, length of days forever and ever.
Psalms	21:5	His glory is great through your salvation; splendor and majesty you bestow on him.
Psalms	21:6	For you make him most blessed forever; you make him glad with the joy of your presence.
Psalms	21:7	For the king trusts in the LORD, and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be moved.
Psalms	21:8	Your hand will find out all your enemies; your right hand will find out those who hate you.
Psalms	21:9	You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath, and fire will consume them.
Psalms	21:10	You will destroy their descendants from the earth, and their offspring from among the children of man.
Psalms	21:11	Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed.
Psalms	21:12	For you will put them to flight; you will aim at their faces with your bows.
Psalms	21:13	Be exalted, O LORD, in your strength! We will sing and praise your power.
Psalms	22:1	My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning?
Psalms	22:2	O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest.
Psalms	22:3	Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel.
Psalms	22:4	In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them.
Psalms	22:5	To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame.
Psalms	22:6	But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people.
Psalms	22:7	All who see me mock me; they make mouths at me; they wag their heads;
Psalms	22:8	"He trusts in the LORD; let him deliver him; let him rescue him, for he delights in him!"
Psalms	22:9	Yet you are he who took me from the womb; you made me trust you at my mother's breasts.
Psalms	22:10	On you was I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God.
Psalms	22:11	Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help.
Psalms	22:12	Many bulls encompass me; strong bulls of Bashan surround me;
Psalms	22:13	they open wide their mouths at me, like a ravening and roaring lion.
Psalms	22:14	I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is like wax; it is melted within my breast;
Psalms	22:15	my strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws; you lay me in the dust of death.
Psalms	22:16	For dogs encompass me; a company of evildoers encircles me; they have pierced my hands and feet--
Psalms	22:17	I can count all my bones--they stare and gloat over me;
Psalms	22:18	they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.
Psalms	22:19	But you, O LORD, do not be far off! O you my help, come quickly to my aid!
Psalms	22:20	Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog!
Psalms	22:21	Save me from the mouth of the lion! You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen!
Psalms	22:22	I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you:
Psalms	22:23	You who fear the LORD, praise him! All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel!
Psalms	22:24	For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard, when he cried to him.
Psalms	22:25	From you comes my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will perform before those who fear him.
Psalms	22:26	The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the LORD! May your hearts live forever!
Psalms	22:27	All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you.
Psalms	22:28	For kingship belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations.
Psalms	22:29	All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship; before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive.
Psalms	22:30	Posterity shall serve him; it shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation;
Psalms	22:31	they shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it.
Psalms	23:1	The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
Psalms	23:2	He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.
Psalms	23:3	He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
Psalms	23:4	Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
Psalms	23:5	You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows.
Psalms	23:6	Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the LORD forever.
Psalms	24:1	The earth is the LORD's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein,
Psalms	24:2	for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers.
Psalms	24:3	Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD? And who shall stand in his holy place?
Psalms	24:4	He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully.
Psalms	24:5	He will receive blessing from the LORD and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
Psalms	24:6	Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah
Psalms	24:7	Lift up your heads, O gates! And be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Psalms	24:8	Who is this King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty, the LORD, mighty in battle!
Psalms	24:9	Lift up your heads, O gates! And lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Psalms	24:10	Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory! Selah
Psalms	25:1	To you, O LORD, I lift up my soul.
Psalms	25:2	O my God, in you I trust; let me not be put to shame; let not my enemies exult over me.
Psalms	25:3	Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame; they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous.
Psalms	25:4	Make me to know your ways, O LORD; teach me your paths.
Psalms	25:5	Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day long.
Psalms	25:6	Remember your mercy, O LORD, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old.
Psalms	25:7	Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions; according to your steadfast love remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O LORD!
Psalms	25:8	Good and upright is the LORD; therefore he instructs sinners in the way.
Psalms	25:9	He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.
Psalms	25:10	All the paths of the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness, for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies.
Psalms	25:11	For your name's sake, O LORD, pardon my guilt, for it is great.
Psalms	25:12	Who is the man who fears the LORD? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose.
Psalms	25:13	His soul shall abide in well-being, and his offspring shall inherit the land.
Psalms	25:14	The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant.
Psalms	25:15	My eyes are ever toward the LORD, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.
Psalms	25:16	Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted.
Psalms	25:17	The troubles of my heart are enlarged; bring me out of my distresses.
Psalms	25:18	Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins.
Psalms	25:19	Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me.
Psalms	25:20	Oh, guard my soul, and deliver me! Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you.
Psalms	25:21	May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you.
Psalms	25:22	Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalms	26:1	Vindicate me, O LORD, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the LORD without wavering.
Psalms	26:2	Prove me, O LORD, and try me; test my heart and my mind.
Psalms	26:3	For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness.
Psalms	26:4	I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites.
Psalms	26:5	I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked.
Psalms	26:6	I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O LORD,
Psalms	26:7	proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds.
Psalms	26:8	O LORD, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells.
Psalms	26:9	Do not sweep my soul away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men,
Psalms	26:10	in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes.
Psalms	26:11	But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; redeem me, and be gracious to me.
Psalms	26:12	My foot stands on level ground; in the great assembly I will bless the LORD.
Psalms	27:1	The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Psalms	27:2	When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall.
Psalms	27:3	Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be confident.
Psalms	27:4	One thing have I asked of the LORD, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the LORD and to inquire in his temple.
Psalms	27:5	For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent; he will lift me high upon a rock.
Psalms	27:6	And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing and make melody to the LORD.
Psalms	27:7	Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud; be gracious to me and answer me!
Psalms	27:8	You have said, "Seek my face." My heart says to you, "Your face, LORD, do I seek."
Psalms	27:9	Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off; forsake me not, O God of my salvation!
Psalms	27:10	For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the LORD will take me in.
Psalms	27:11	Teach me your way, O LORD, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies.
Psalms	27:12	Give me not up to the will of my adversaries; for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence.
Psalms	27:13	I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living!
Psalms	27:14	Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the LORD!
Psalms	28:1	To you, O LORD, I call; my rock, be not deaf to me, lest, if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit.
Psalms	28:2	Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy, when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary.
Psalms	28:3	Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil, who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts.
Psalms	28:4	Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds; give to them according to the work of their hands; render them their due reward.
Psalms	28:5	Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands, he will tear them down and build them up no more.
Psalms	28:6	Blessed be the LORD! for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy.
Psalms	28:7	The LORD is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts, and I am helped; my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him.
Psalms	28:8	The LORD is the strength of his people; he is the saving refuge of his anointed.
Psalms	28:9	Oh, save your people and bless your heritage! Be their shepherd and carry them forever.
Psalms	29:1	Ascribe to the LORD, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength.
Psalms	29:2	Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness.
Psalms	29:3	The voice of the LORD is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD, over many waters.
Psalms	29:4	The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
Psalms	29:5	The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon.
Psalms	29:6	He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Sirion like a young wild ox.
Psalms	29:7	The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire.
Psalms	29:8	The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
Psalms	29:9	The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare, and in his temple all cry, "Glory!"
Psalms	29:10	The LORD sits enthroned over the flood; the LORD sits enthroned as king forever.
Psalms	29:11	May the LORD give strength to his people! May the LORD bless his people with peace!
Psalms	30:1	I will extol you, O LORD, for you have drawn me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me.
Psalms	30:2	O LORD my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me.
Psalms	30:3	O LORD, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit.
Psalms	30:4	Sing praises to the LORD, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name.
Psalms	30:5	For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning.
Psalms	30:6	As for me, I said in my prosperity, "I shall never be moved."
Psalms	30:7	By your favor, O LORD, you made my mountain stand strong; you hid your face; I was dismayed.
Psalms	30:8	To you, O LORD, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy:
Psalms	30:9	"What profit is there in my death, if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness?
Psalms	30:10	Hear, O LORD, and be merciful to me! O LORD, be my helper!"
Psalms	30:11	You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness,
Psalms	30:12	that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to you forever!
Psalms	31:1	In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame; in your righteousness deliver me!
Psalms	31:2	Incline your ear to me; rescue me speedily! Be a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me!
Psalms	31:3	For you are my rock and my fortress; and for your name's sake you lead me and guide me;
Psalms	31:4	you take me out of the net they have hidden for me, for you are my refuge.
Psalms	31:5	Into your hand I commit my spirit; you have redeemed me, O LORD, faithful God.
Psalms	31:6	I hate those who pay regard to worthless idols, but I trust in the LORD.
Psalms	31:7	I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love, because you have seen my affliction; you have known the distress of my soul,
Psalms	31:8	and you have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy; you have set my feet in a broad place.
Psalms	31:9	Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am in distress; my eye is wasted from grief; my soul and my body also.
Psalms	31:10	For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away.
Psalms	31:11	Because of all my adversaries I have become a reproach, especially to my neighbors, and an object of dread to my acquaintances; those who see me in the street flee from me.
Psalms	31:12	I have been forgotten like one who is dead; I have become like a broken vessel.
Psalms	31:13	For I hear the whispering of many--terror on every side!--as they scheme together against me, as they plot to take my life.
Psalms	31:14	But I trust in you, O LORD; I say, "You are my God."
Psalms	31:15	My times are in your hand; rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors!
Psalms	31:16	Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your steadfast love!
Psalms	31:17	O LORD, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon you; let the wicked be put to shame; let them go silently to Sheol.
Psalms	31:18	Let the lying lips be mute, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.
Psalms	31:19	Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you, in the sight of the children of mankind!
Psalms	31:20	In the cover of your presence you hide them from the plots of men; you store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues.
Psalms	31:21	Blessed be the LORD, for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city.
Psalms	31:22	I had said in my alarm, "I am cut off from your sight." But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cried to you for help.
Psalms	31:23	Love the LORD, all you his saints! The LORD preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride.
Psalms	31:24	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the LORD!
Psalms	32:1	Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
Psalms	32:2	Blessed is the man against whom the LORD counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit.
Psalms	32:3	For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.
Psalms	32:4	For day and night your hand was heavy upon me; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. Selah
Psalms	32:5	I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD," and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah
Psalms	32:6	Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found; surely in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him.
Psalms	32:7	You are a hiding place for me; you preserve me from trouble; you surround me with shouts of deliverance. Selah
Psalms	32:8	I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you.
Psalms	32:9	Be not like a horse or a mule, without understanding, which must be curbed with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you.
Psalms	32:10	Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the LORD.
Psalms	32:11	Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart!
Psalms	33:1	Shout for joy in the LORD, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright.
Psalms	33:2	Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre; make melody to him with the harp of ten strings!
Psalms	33:3	Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts.
Psalms	33:4	For the word of the LORD is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness.
Psalms	33:5	He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psalms	33:6	By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host.
Psalms	33:7	He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap; he puts the deeps in storehouses.
Psalms	33:8	Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him!
Psalms	33:9	For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm.
Psalms	33:10	The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; he frustrates the plans of the peoples.
Psalms	33:11	The counsel of the LORD stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations.
Psalms	33:12	Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage!
Psalms	33:13	The LORD looks down from heaven; he sees all the children of man;
Psalms	33:14	from where he sits enthroned he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,
Psalms	33:15	he who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds.
Psalms	33:16	The king is not saved by his great army; a warrior is not delivered by his great strength.
Psalms	33:17	The war horse is a false hope for salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue.
Psalms	33:18	Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love,
Psalms	33:19	that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine.
Psalms	33:20	Our soul waits for the LORD; he is our help and our shield.
Psalms	33:21	For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name.
Psalms	33:22	Let your steadfast love, O LORD, be upon us, even as we hope in you.
Psalms	34:1	I will bless the LORD at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Psalms	34:2	My soul makes its boast in the LORD; let the humble hear and be glad.
Psalms	34:3	Oh, magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together!
Psalms	34:4	I sought the LORD, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears.
Psalms	34:5	Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.
Psalms	34:6	This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him and saved him out of all his troubles.
Psalms	34:7	The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
Psalms	34:8	Oh, taste and see that the LORD is good! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him!
Psalms	34:9	Oh, fear the LORD, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack!
Psalms	34:10	The young lions suffer want and hunger; but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing.
Psalms	34:11	Come, O children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
Psalms	34:12	What man is there who desires life and loves many days, that he may see good?
Psalms	34:13	Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.
Psalms	34:14	Turn away from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it.
Psalms	34:15	The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry.
Psalms	34:16	The face of the LORD is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth.
Psalms	34:17	When the righteous cry for help, the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles.
Psalms	34:18	The LORD is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit.
Psalms	34:19	Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD delivers him out of them all.
Psalms	34:20	He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken.
Psalms	34:21	Affliction will slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be condemned.
Psalms	34:22	The LORD redeems the life of his servants; none of those who take refuge in him will be condemned.
Psalms	35:1	Contend, O LORD, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against me!
Psalms	35:2	Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help!
Psalms	35:3	Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers! Say to my soul, "I am your salvation!"
Psalms	35:4	Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek after my life! Let them be turned back and disappointed who devise evil against me!
Psalms	35:5	Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the LORD driving them away!
Psalms	35:6	Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the LORD pursuing them!
Psalms	35:7	For without cause they hid their net for me; without cause they dug a pit for my life.
Psalms	35:8	Let destruction come upon him when he does not know it! And let the net that he hid ensnare him; let him fall into it--to his destruction!
Psalms	35:9	Then my soul will rejoice in the LORD, exulting in his salvation.
Psalms	35:10	All my bones shall say, "O LORD, who is like you, delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him, the poor and needy from him who robs him?"
Psalms	35:11	Malicious witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I do not know.
Psalms	35:12	They repay me evil for good; my soul is bereft.
Psalms	35:13	But I, when they were sick--I wore sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting; I prayed with head bowed on my chest.
Psalms	35:14	I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother; as one who laments his mother, I bowed down in mourning.
Psalms	35:15	But at my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered; they gathered together against me; wretches whom I did not know tore at me without ceasing;
Psalms	35:16	like profane mockers at a feast, they gnash at me with their teeth.
Psalms	35:17	How long, O Lord, will you look on? Rescue me from their destruction, my precious life from the lions!
Psalms	35:18	I will thank you in the great congregation; in the mighty throng I will praise you.
Psalms	35:19	Let not those rejoice over me who are wrongfully my foes, and let not those wink the eye who hate me without cause.
Psalms	35:20	For they do not speak peace, but against those who are quiet in the land they devise words of deceit.
Psalms	35:21	They open wide their mouths against me; they say, "Aha, Aha! our eyes have seen it!"
Psalms	35:22	You have seen, O LORD; be not silent! O Lord, be not far from me!
Psalms	35:23	Awake and rouse yourself for my vindication, for my cause, my God and my Lord!
Psalms	35:24	Vindicate me, O LORD, my God, according to your righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me!
Psalms	35:25	Let them not say in their hearts, "Aha, our heart's desire!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up."
Psalms	35:26	Let them be put to shame and disappointed altogether who rejoice at my calamity! Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me!
Psalms	35:27	Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore, "Great is the LORD, who delights in the welfare of his servant!"
Psalms	35:28	Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.
Psalms	36:1	Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart; there is no fear of God before his eyes.
Psalms	36:2	For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated.
Psalms	36:3	The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit; he has ceased to act wisely and do good.
Psalms	36:4	He plots trouble while on his bed; he sets himself in a way that is not good; he does not reject evil.
Psalms	36:5	Your steadfast love, O LORD, extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psalms	36:6	Your righteousness is like the mountains of God; your judgments are like the great deep; man and beast you save, O LORD.
Psalms	36:7	How precious is your steadfast love, O God! The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings.
Psalms	36:8	They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights.
Psalms	36:9	For with you is the fountain of life; in your light do we see light.
Psalms	36:10	Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of heart!
Psalms	36:11	Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away.
Psalms	36:12	There the evildoers lie fallen; they are thrust down, unable to rise.
Psalms	37:1	Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers!
Psalms	37:2	For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb.
Psalms	37:3	Trust in the LORD, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness.
Psalms	37:4	Delight yourself in the LORD, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
Psalms	37:5	Commit your way to the LORD; trust in him, and he will act.
Psalms	37:6	He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday.
Psalms	37:7	Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices!
Psalms	37:8	Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil.
Psalms	37:9	For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land.
Psalms	37:10	In just a little while, the wicked will be no more; though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there.
Psalms	37:11	But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace.
Psalms	37:12	The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him,
Psalms	37:13	but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he sees that his day is coming.
Psalms	37:14	The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose way is upright;
Psalms	37:15	their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
Psalms	37:16	Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked.
Psalms	37:17	For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the LORD upholds the righteous.
Psalms	37:18	The LORD knows the days of the blameless, and their heritage will remain forever;
Psalms	37:19	they are not put to shame in evil times; in the days of famine they have abundance.
Psalms	37:20	But the wicked will perish; the enemies of the LORD are like the glory of the pastures; they vanish--like smoke they vanish away.
Psalms	37:21	The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and gives;
Psalms	37:22	for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off.
Psalms	37:23	The steps of a man are established by the LORD, when he delights in his way;
Psalms	37:24	though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the LORD upholds his hand.
Psalms	37:25	I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread.
Psalms	37:26	He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing.
Psalms	37:27	Turn away from evil and do good; so shall you dwell forever.
Psalms	37:28	For the LORD loves justice; he will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalms	37:29	The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever.
Psalms	37:30	The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.
Psalms	37:31	The law of his God is in his heart; his steps do not slip.
Psalms	37:32	The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death.
Psalms	37:33	The LORD will not abandon him to his power or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial.
Psalms	37:34	Wait for the LORD and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land; you will look on when the wicked are cut off.
Psalms	37:35	I have seen a wicked, ruthless man, spreading himself like a green laurel tree.
Psalms	37:36	But he passed away, and behold, he was no more; though I sought him, he could not be found.
Psalms	37:37	Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.
Psalms	37:38	But transgressors shall be altogether destroyed; the future of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalms	37:39	The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
Psalms	37:40	The LORD helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him.
Psalms	38:1	O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath!
Psalms	38:2	For your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has come down on me.
Psalms	38:3	There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation; there is no health in my bones because of my sin.
Psalms	38:4	For my iniquities have gone over my head; like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
Psalms	38:5	My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness,
Psalms	38:6	I am utterly bowed down and prostrate; all the day I go about mourning.
Psalms	38:7	For my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh.
Psalms	38:8	I am feeble and crushed; I groan because of the tumult of my heart.
Psalms	38:9	O Lord, all my longing is before you; my sighing is not hidden from you.
Psalms	38:10	My heart throbs; my strength fails me, and the light of my eyes--it also has gone from me.
Psalms	38:11	My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off.
Psalms	38:12	Those who seek my life lay their snares; those who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate treachery all day long.
Psalms	38:13	But I am like a deaf man; I do not hear, like a mute man who does not open his mouth.
Psalms	38:14	I have become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no rebukes.
Psalms	38:15	But for you, O LORD, do I wait; it is you, O Lord my God, who will answer.
Psalms	38:16	For I said, "Only let them not rejoice over me, who boast against me when my foot slips!"
Psalms	38:17	For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me.
Psalms	38:18	I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin.
Psalms	38:19	But my foes are vigorous, they are mighty, and many are those who hate me wrongfully.
Psalms	38:20	Those who render me evil for good accuse me because I follow after good.
Psalms	38:21	Do not forsake me, O LORD! O my God, be not far from me!
Psalms	38:22	Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation!
Psalms	39:1	I said, "I will guard my ways, that I may not sin with my tongue; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence."
Psalms	39:2	I was mute and silent; I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse.
Psalms	39:3	My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue:
Psalms	39:4	"O LORD, make me know my end and what is the measure of my days; let me know how fleeting I am!
Psalms	39:5	Behold, you have made my days a few handbreadths, and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath! Selah
Psalms	39:6	Surely a man goes about as a shadow! Surely for nothing they are in turmoil; man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather!
Psalms	39:7	"And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you.
Psalms	39:8	Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool!
Psalms	39:9	I am mute; I do not open my mouth, for it is you who have done it.
Psalms	39:10	Remove your stroke from me; I am spent by the hostility of your hand.
Psalms	39:11	When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him; surely all mankind is a mere breath! Selah
Psalms	39:12	"Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear to my cry; hold not your peace at my tears! For I am a sojourner with you, a guest, like all my fathers.
Psalms	39:13	Look away from me, that I may smile again, before I depart and am no more!"
Psalms	40:1	I waited patiently for the LORD; he inclined to me and heard my cry.
Psalms	40:2	He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure.
Psalms	40:3	He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the LORD.
Psalms	40:4	Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie!
Psalms	40:5	You have multiplied, O LORD my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us; none can compare with you! I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told.
Psalms	40:6	Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required.
Psalms	40:7	Then I said, "Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is written of me:
Psalms	40:8	I desire to do your will, O my God; your law is within my heart."
Psalms	40:9	I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation; behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O LORD.
Psalms	40:10	I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation.
Psalms	40:11	As for you, O LORD, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me!
Psalms	40:12	For evils have encompassed me beyond number; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see; they are more than the hairs of my head; my heart fails me.
Psalms	40:13	Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me!
Psalms	40:14	Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life; let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who desire my hurt!
Psalms	40:15	Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me, "Aha, Aha!"
Psalms	40:16	But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say continually, "Great is the LORD!"
Psalms	40:17	As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; do not delay, O my God!
Psalms	41:1	Blessed is the one who considers the poor! In the day of trouble the LORD delivers him;
Psalms	41:2	the LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies.
Psalms	41:3	The LORD sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.
Psalms	41:4	As for me, I said, "O LORD, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you!"
Psalms	41:5	My enemies say of me in malice, "When will he die and his name perish?"
Psalms	41:6	And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity; when he goes out, he tells it abroad.
Psalms	41:7	All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.
Psalms	41:8	They say, "A deadly thing is poured out on him; he will not rise again from where he lies."
Psalms	41:9	Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me.
Psalms	41:10	But you, O LORD, be gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may repay them!
Psalms	41:11	By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy will not shout in triumph over me.
Psalms	41:12	But you have upheld me because of my integrity, and set me in your presence forever.
Psalms	41:13	Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen.
Psalms	42:1	As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God.
Psalms	42:2	My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God?
Psalms	42:3	My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me continually, "Where is your God?"
Psalms	42:4	These things I remember, as I pour out my soul: how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival.
Psalms	42:5	Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation
Psalms	42:6	and my God.My soul is cast down within me; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon, from Mount Mizar.
Psalms	42:7	Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls; all your breakers and your waves have gone over me.
Psalms	42:8	By day the LORD commands his steadfast love, and at night his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life.
Psalms	42:9	I say to God, my rock: "Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?"
Psalms	42:10	As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me, while they say to me continually, "Where is your God?"
Psalms	42:11	Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psalms	43:1	Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people, from the deceitful and unjust man deliver me!
Psalms	43:2	For you are the God in whom I take refuge; why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
Psalms	43:3	Send out your light and your truth; let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling!
Psalms	43:4	Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God.
Psalms	43:5	Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psalms	44:1	O God, we have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us, what deeds you performed in their days, in the days of old:
Psalms	44:2	you with your own hand drove out the nations, but them you planted; you afflicted the peoples, but them you set free;
Psalms	44:3	for not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm, and the light of your face, for you delighted in them.
Psalms	44:4	You are my King, O God; ordain salvation for Jacob!
Psalms	44:5	Through you we push down our foes; through your name we tread down those who rise up against us.
Psalms	44:6	For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me.
Psalms	44:7	But you have saved us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us.
Psalms	44:8	In God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah
Psalms	44:9	But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies.
Psalms	44:10	You have made us turn back from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoil.
Psalms	44:11	You have made us like sheep for slaughter and have scattered us among the nations.
Psalms	44:12	You have sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them.
Psalms	44:13	You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those around us.
Psalms	44:14	You have made us a byword among the nations, a laughingstock among the peoples.
Psalms	44:15	All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face
Psalms	44:16	at the sound of the taunter and reviler, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger.
Psalms	44:17	All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you, and we have not been false to your covenant.
Psalms	44:18	Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way;
Psalms	44:19	yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death.
Psalms	44:20	If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god,
Psalms	44:21	would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
Psalms	44:22	Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.
Psalms	44:23	Awake! Why are you sleeping, O Lord? Rouse yourself! Do not reject us forever!
Psalms	44:24	Why do you hide your face? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression?
Psalms	44:25	For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly clings to the ground.
Psalms	44:26	Rise up; come to our help! Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love!
Psalms	45:1	My heart overflows with a pleasing theme; I address my verses to the king; my tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe.
Psalms	45:2	You are the most handsome of the sons of men; grace is poured upon your lips; therefore God has blessed you forever.
Psalms	45:3	Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty!
Psalms	45:4	In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness; let your right hand teach you awesome deeds!
Psalms	45:5	Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you.
Psalms	45:6	Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;
Psalms	45:7	you have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions;
Psalms	45:8	your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad;
Psalms	45:9	daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor; at your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir.
Psalms	45:10	Hear, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear: forget your people and your father's house,
Psalms	45:11	and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your lord, bow to him.
Psalms	45:12	The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts, the richest of the people.
Psalms	45:13	All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold.
Psalms	45:14	In many-colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her.
Psalms	45:15	With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king.
Psalms	45:16	In place of your fathers shall be your sons; you will make them princes in all the earth.
Psalms	45:17	I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore nations will praise you forever and ever.
Psalms	46:1	God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
Psalms	46:2	Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea,
Psalms	46:3	though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. Selah
Psalms	46:4	There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High.
Psalms	46:5	God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God will help her when morning dawns.
Psalms	46:6	The nations rage, the kingdoms totter; he utters his voice, the earth melts.
Psalms	46:7	The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psalms	46:8	Come, behold the works of the LORD, how he has brought desolations on the earth.
Psalms	46:9	He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; he breaks the bow and shatters the spear; he burns the chariots with fire.
Psalms	46:10	"Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!"
Psalms	46:11	The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psalms	47:1	Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout to God with loud songs of joy!
Psalms	47:2	For the LORD, the Most High, is to be feared, a great king over all the earth.
Psalms	47:3	He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet.
Psalms	47:4	He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loves. Selah
Psalms	47:5	God has gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
Psalms	47:6	Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!
Psalms	47:7	For God is the King of all the earth; sing praises with a psalm!
Psalms	47:8	God reigns over the nations; God sits on his holy throne.
Psalms	47:9	The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God; he is highly exalted!
Psalms	48:1	Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised in the city of our God! His holy mountain,
Psalms	48:2	beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth, Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great King.
Psalms	48:3	Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress.
Psalms	48:4	For behold, the kings assembled; they came on together.
Psalms	48:5	As soon as they saw it, they were astounded; they were in panic; they took to flight.
Psalms	48:6	Trembling took hold of them there, anguish as of a woman in labor.
Psalms	48:7	By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish.
Psalms	48:8	As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God, which God will establish forever. Selah
Psalms	48:9	We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple.
Psalms	48:10	As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is filled with righteousness.
Psalms	48:11	Let Mount Zion be glad! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments!
Psalms	48:12	Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers,
Psalms	48:13	consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels, that you may tell the next generation
Psalms	48:14	that this is God, our God forever and ever. He will guide us forever.
Psalms	49:1	Hear this, all peoples! Give ear, all inhabitants of the world,
Psalms	49:2	both low and high, rich and poor together!
Psalms	49:3	My mouth shall speak wisdom; the meditation of my heart shall be understanding.
Psalms	49:4	I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will solve my riddle to the music of the lyre.
Psalms	49:5	Why should I fear in times of trouble, when the iniquity of those who cheat me surrounds me,
Psalms	49:6	those who trust in their wealth and boast of the abundance of their riches?
Psalms	49:7	Truly no man can ransom another, or give to God the price of his life,
Psalms	49:8	for the ransom of their life is costly and can never suffice,
Psalms	49:9	that he should live on forever and never see the pit.
Psalms	49:10	For he sees that even the wise die; the fool and the stupid alike must perish and leave their wealth to others.
Psalms	49:11	Their graves are their homes forever, their dwelling places to all generations, though they called lands by their own names.
Psalms	49:12	Man in his pomp will not remain; he is like the beasts that perish.
Psalms	49:13	This is the path of those who have foolish confidence; yet after them people approve of their boasts. Selah
Psalms	49:14	Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol; Death shall be their shepherd, and the upright shall rule over them in the morning. Their form shall be consumed in Sheol, with no place to dwell.
Psalms	49:15	But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah
Psalms	49:16	Be not afraid when a man becomes rich, when the glory of his house increases.
Psalms	49:17	For when he dies he will carry nothing away; his glory will not go down after him.
Psalms	49:18	For though, while he lives, he counts himself blessed,--and though you get praise when you do well for yourself--
Psalms	49:19	his soul will go to the generation of his fathers, who will never again see light.
Psalms	49:20	Man in his pomp yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish.
Psalms	50:1	The Mighty One, God the LORD, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting.
Psalms	50:2	Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth.
Psalms	50:3	Our God comes; he does not keep silence; before him is a devouring fire, around him a mighty tempest.
Psalms	50:4	He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people:
Psalms	50:5	"Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice!"
Psalms	50:6	The heavens declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge! Selah
Psalms	50:7	"Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you. I am God, your God.
Psalms	50:8	Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you; your burnt offerings are continually before me.
Psalms	50:9	I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds.
Psalms	50:10	For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills.
Psalms	50:11	I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine.
Psalms	50:12	"If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine.
Psalms	50:13	Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats?
Psalms	50:14	Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High,
Psalms	50:15	and call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me."
Psalms	50:16	But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips?
Psalms	50:17	For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you.
Psalms	50:18	If you see a thief, you are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers.
Psalms	50:19	"You give your mouth free rein for evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
Psalms	50:20	You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.
Psalms	50:21	These things you have done, and I have been silent; you thought that I was one like yourself. But now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you.
Psalms	50:22	"Mark this, then, you who forget God, lest I tear you apart, and there be none to deliver!
Psalms	50:23	The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me; to one who orders his way rightly I will show the salvation of God!"
Psalms	51:1	Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions.
Psalms	51:2	Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin!
Psalms	51:3	For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.
Psalms	51:4	Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment.
Psalms	51:5	Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me.
Psalms	51:6	Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart.
Psalms	51:7	Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
Psalms	51:8	Let me hear joy and gladness; let the bones that you have broken rejoice.
Psalms	51:9	Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities.
Psalms	51:10	Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.
Psalms	51:11	Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me.
Psalms	51:12	Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit.
Psalms	51:13	Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you.
Psalms	51:14	Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness.
Psalms	51:15	O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise.
Psalms	51:16	For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering.
Psalms	51:17	The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.
Psalms	51:18	Do good to Zion in your good pleasure; build up the walls of Jerusalem;
Psalms	51:19	then will you delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings; then bulls will be offered on your altar.
Psalms	52:1	Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day.
Psalms	52:2	Your tongue plots destruction, like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit.
Psalms	52:3	You love evil more than good, and lying more than speaking what is right. Selah
Psalms	52:4	You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue.
Psalms	52:5	But God will break you down forever; he will snatch and tear you from your tent; he will uproot you from the land of the living. Selah
Psalms	52:6	The righteous shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, saying,
Psalms	52:7	"See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches and sought refuge in his own destruction!"
Psalms	52:8	But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever.
Psalms	52:9	I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good, in the presence of the godly.
Psalms	53:1	The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good.
Psalms	53:2	God looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God.
Psalms	53:3	They have all fallen away; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one.
Psalms	53:4	Have those who work evil no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon God?
Psalms	53:5	There they are, in great terror, where there is no terror! For God scatters the bones of him who encamps against you; you put them to shame, for God has rejected them.
Psalms	53:6	Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores the fortunes of his people, Let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalms	54:1	O God, save me, by your name, and vindicate me by your might.
Psalms	54:2	O God, hear my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psalms	54:3	For strangers have risen against me; ruthless men seek my life; they do not set God before themselves. Selah
Psalms	54:4	Behold, God is my helper; the Lord is the upholder of my life.
Psalms	54:5	He will return the evil to my enemies; in your faithfulness put an end to them.
Psalms	54:6	With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you; I will give thanks to your name, O LORD, for it is good.
Psalms	54:7	For he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies.
Psalms	55:1	Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy!
Psalms	55:2	Attend to me, and answer me; I am restless in my complaint and I moan,
Psalms	55:3	because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they drop trouble upon me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me.
Psalms	55:4	My heart is in anguish within me; the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
Psalms	55:5	Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me.
Psalms	55:6	And I say, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest;
Psalms	55:7	yes, I would wander far away; I would lodge in the wilderness; Selah
Psalms	55:8	I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest."
Psalms	55:9	Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues; for I see violence and strife in the city.
Psalms	55:10	Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it;
Psalms	55:11	ruin is in its midst; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace.
Psalms	55:12	For it is not an enemy who taunts me--then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me--then I could hide from him.
Psalms	55:13	But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend.
Psalms	55:14	We used to take sweet counsel together; within God's house we walked in the throng.
Psalms	55:15	Let death steal over them; let them go down to Sheol alive; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart.
Psalms	55:16	But I call to God, and the LORD will save me.
Psalms	55:17	Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice.
Psalms	55:18	He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me.
Psalms	55:19	God will give ear and humble them, he who is enthroned from of old, Selah because they do not change and do not fear God.
Psalms	55:20	My companion stretched out his hand against his friends; he violated his covenant.
Psalms	55:21	His speech was smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
Psalms	55:22	Cast your burden on the LORD, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved.
Psalms	55:23	But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in you.
Psalms	56:1	Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me; all day long an attacker oppresses me;
Psalms	56:2	my enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly.
Psalms	56:3	When I am afraid, I put my trust in you.
Psalms	56:4	In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
Psalms	56:5	All day long they injure my cause; all their thoughts are against me for evil.
Psalms	56:6	They stir up strife, they lurk; they watch my steps, as they have waited for my life.
Psalms	56:7	For their crime will they escape? In wrath cast down the peoples, O God!
Psalms	56:8	You have kept count of my tossings; put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book?
Psalms	56:9	Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know, that God is for me.
Psalms	56:10	In God, whose word I praise, in the LORD, whose word I praise,
Psalms	56:11	in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Psalms	56:12	I must perform my vows to you, O God; I will render thank offerings to you.
Psalms	56:13	For you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life.
Psalms	57:1	Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by.
Psalms	57:2	I cry out to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me.
Psalms	57:3	He will send from heaven and save me; he will put to shame him who tramples on me. Selah God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness!
Psalms	57:4	My soul is in the midst of lions; I lie down amid fiery beasts--the children of man, whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords.
Psalms	57:5	Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalms	57:6	They set a net for my steps; my soul was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves. Selah
Psalms	57:7	My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast! I will sing and make melody!
Psalms	57:8	Awake, my glory! Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psalms	57:9	I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psalms	57:10	For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psalms	57:11	Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalms	58:1	Do you indeed decree what is right, you gods? Do you judge the children of man uprightly?
Psalms	58:2	No, in your hearts you devise wrongs; your hands deal out violence on earth.
Psalms	58:3	The wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies.
Psalms	58:4	They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear,
Psalms	58:5	so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or of the cunning enchanter.
Psalms	58:6	O God, break the teeth in their mouths; tear out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD!
Psalms	58:7	Let them vanish like water that runs away; when he aims his arrows, let them be blunted.
Psalms	58:8	Let them be like the snail that dissolves into slime, like the stillborn child who never sees the sun.
Psalms	58:9	Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of thorns, whether green or ablaze, may he sweep them away!
Psalms	58:10	The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked.
Psalms	58:11	Mankind will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; surely there is a God who judges on earth."
Psalms	59:1	Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; protect me from those who rise up against me;
Psalms	59:2	deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men.
Psalms	59:3	For behold, they lie in wait for my life; fierce men stir up strife against me. For no transgression or sin of mine, O LORD,
Psalms	59:4	for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake, come to meet me, and see!
Psalms	59:5	You, LORD God of hosts, are God of Israel. Rouse yourself to punish all the nations; spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. Selah
Psalms	59:6	Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psalms	59:7	There they are, bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips--for "Who," they think, "will hear us?"
Psalms	59:8	But you, O LORD, laugh at them; you hold all the nations in derision.
Psalms	59:9	O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress.
Psalms	59:10	My God in his steadfast love will meet me; God will let me look in triumph on my enemies.
Psalms	59:11	Kill them not, lest my people forget; make them totter by your power and bring them down, O Lord, our shield!
Psalms	59:12	For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,
Psalms	59:13	consume them in wrath; consume them till they are no more, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth. Selah
Psalms	59:14	Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psalms	59:15	They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill.
Psalms	59:16	But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress.
Psalms	59:17	O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love.
Psalms	60:1	O God, you have rejected us, broken our defenses; you have been angry; oh, restore us.
Psalms	60:2	You have made the land to quake; you have torn it open; repair its breaches, for it totters.
Psalms	60:3	You have made your people see hard things; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger.
Psalms	60:4	You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow. Selah
Psalms	60:5	That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us!
Psalms	60:6	God has spoken in his holiness: "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Vale of Succoth.
Psalms	60:7	Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter.
Psalms	60:8	Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."
Psalms	60:9	Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psalms	60:10	Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies.
Psalms	60:11	Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psalms	60:12	With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.
Psalms	61:1	Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer;
Psalms	61:2	from the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I,
Psalms	61:3	for you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy.
Psalms	61:4	Let me dwell in your tent forever! Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings! Selah
Psalms	61:5	For you, O God, have heard my vows; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name.
Psalms	61:6	Prolong the life of the king; may his years endure to all generations!
Psalms	61:7	May he be enthroned forever before God; appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him!
Psalms	61:8	So will I ever sing praises to your name, as I perform my vows day after day.
Psalms	62:1	For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation.
Psalms	62:2	He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken.
Psalms	62:3	How long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence?
Psalms	62:4	They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah
Psalms	62:5	For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him.
Psalms	62:6	He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be shaken.
Psalms	62:7	On God rests my salvation and my glory; my mighty rock, my refuge is God.
Psalms	62:8	Trust in him at all times, O people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us. Selah
Psalms	62:9	Those of low estate are but a breath; those of high estate are a delusion; in the balances they go up; they are together lighter than a breath.
Psalms	62:10	Put no trust in extortion; set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.
Psalms	62:11	Once God has spoken; twice have I heard this: that power belongs to God,
Psalms	62:12	and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For you will render to a man according to his work.
Psalms	63:1	O God, you are my God; earnestly I seek you; my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water.
Psalms	63:2	So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory.
Psalms	63:3	Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you.
Psalms	63:4	So I will bless you as long as I live; in your name I will lift up my hands.
Psalms	63:5	My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips,
Psalms	63:6	when I remember you upon my bed, and meditate on you in the watches of the night;
Psalms	63:7	for you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy.
Psalms	63:8	My soul clings to you; your right hand upholds me.
Psalms	63:9	But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the earth;
Psalms	63:10	they shall be given over to the power of the sword; they shall be a portion for jackals.
Psalms	63:11	But the king shall rejoice in God; all who swear by him shall exult, for the mouths of liars will be stopped.
Psalms	64:1	Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my life from dread of the enemy.
Psalms	64:2	Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers,
Psalms	64:3	who whet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows,
Psalms	64:4	shooting from ambush at the blameless, shooting at him suddenly and without fear.
Psalms	64:5	They hold fast to their evil purpose; they talk of laying snares secretly, thinking, who can see them?
Psalms	64:6	They search out injustice, saying, "We have accomplished a diligent search." For the inward mind and heart of a man are deep!
Psalms	64:7	But God shoots his arrow at them; they are wounded suddenly.
Psalms	64:8	They are brought to ruin, with their own tongues turned against them; all who see them will wag their heads.
Psalms	64:9	Then all mankind fears; they tell what God has brought about and ponder what he has done.
Psalms	64:10	Let the righteous one rejoice in the LORD and take refuge in him! Let all the upright in heart exult!
Psalms	65:1	Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and to you shall vows be performed.
Psalms	65:2	O you who hears prayer, to you shall all flesh come.
Psalms	65:3	When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions.
Psalms	65:4	Blessed is the one you choose and bring near, to dwell in your courts! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple!
Psalms	65:5	By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas;
Psalms	65:6	the one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might;
Psalms	65:7	who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, the tumult of the peoples,
Psalms	65:8	so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy.
Psalms	65:9	You visit the earth and water it; you greatly enrich it; the river of God is full of water; you provide their grain, for so you have prepared it.
Psalms	65:10	You water its furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers, and blessing its growth.
Psalms	65:11	You crown the year with your bounty; your wagon tracks overflow with abundance.
Psalms	65:12	The pastures of the wilderness overflow, the hills gird themselves with joy,
Psalms	65:13	the meadows clothe themselves with flocks, the valleys deck themselves with grain, they shout and sing together for joy.
Psalms	66:1	Shout for joy to God, all the earth;
Psalms	66:2	sing the glory of his name; give to him glorious praise!
Psalms	66:3	Say to God, "How awesome are your deeds! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you.
Psalms	66:4	All the earth worships you and sings praises to you; they sing praises to your name." Selah
Psalms	66:5	Come and see what God has done: he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man.
Psalms	66:6	He turned the sea into dry land; they passed through the river on foot. There did we rejoice in him,
Psalms	66:7	who rules by his might forever, whose eyes keep watch on the nations--let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah
Psalms	66:8	Bless our God, O peoples; let the sound of his praise be heard,
Psalms	66:9	who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip.
Psalms	66:10	For you, O God, have tested us; you have tried us as silver is tried.
Psalms	66:11	You brought us into the net; you laid a crushing burden on our backs;
Psalms	66:12	you let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance.
Psalms	66:13	I will come into your house with burnt offerings; I will perform my vows to you,
Psalms	66:14	that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble.
Psalms	66:15	I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals, with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams; I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah
Psalms	66:16	Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for my soul.
Psalms	66:17	I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue.
Psalms	66:18	If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.
Psalms	66:19	But truly God has listened; he has attended to the voice of my prayer.
Psalms	66:20	Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me!
Psalms	67:1	May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us, Selah
Psalms	67:2	that your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations.
Psalms	67:3	Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psalms	67:4	Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Selah
Psalms	67:5	Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psalms	67:6	The earth has yielded its increase; God, our God, shall bless us.
Psalms	67:7	God shall bless us; let all the ends of the earth fear him!
Psalms	68:1	God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered; and those who hate him shall flee before him!
Psalms	68:2	As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away; as wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God!
Psalms	68:3	But the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be jubilant with joy!
Psalms	68:4	Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the LORD; exult before him!
Psalms	68:5	Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation.
Psalms	68:6	God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land.
Psalms	68:7	O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, Selah
Psalms	68:8	the earth quaked, the heavens poured down rain, before God, the One of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel.
Psalms	68:9	Rain in abundance, O God, you shed abroad; you restored your inheritance as it languished;
Psalms	68:10	your flock found a dwelling in it; in your goodness, O God, you provided for the needy.
Psalms	68:11	The Lord gives the word; the women who announce the news are a great host:
Psalms	68:12	"The kings of the armies--they flee, they flee!" The women at home divide the spoil--
Psalms	68:13	though you men lie among the sheepfolds--the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with shimmering gold.
Psalms	68:14	When the Almighty scatters kings there, let snow fall on Zalmon.
Psalms	68:15	O mountain of God, mountain of Bashan; O many-peaked mountain, mountain of Bashan!
Psalms	68:16	Why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain, at the mount that God desired for his abode, yes, where the LORD will dwell forever?
Psalms	68:17	The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary.
Psalms	68:18	You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the LORD God may dwell there.
Psalms	68:19	Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up; God is our salvation. Selah
Psalms	68:20	Our God is a God of salvation, and to GOD, the Lord, belong deliverances from death.
Psalms	68:21	But God will strike the heads of his enemies, the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways.
Psalms	68:22	The Lord said, "I will bring them back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
Psalms	68:23	that you may strike your feet in their blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe."
Psalms	68:24	Your procession is seen, O God, the procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary--
Psalms	68:25	the singers in front, the musicians last, between them virgins playing tambourines:
Psalms	68:26	"Bless God in the great congregation, the LORD, O you who are of Israel's fountain!"
Psalms	68:27	There is Benjamin, the least of them, in the lead, the princes of Judah in their throng, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
Psalms	68:28	Summon your power, O God, the power, O God, by which you have worked for us.
Psalms	68:29	Because of your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bear gifts to you.
Psalms	68:30	Rebuke the beasts that dwell among the reeds, the herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples. Trample underfoot those who lust after tribute; scatter the peoples who delight in war.
Psalms	68:31	Nobles shall come from Egypt; Cush shall hasten to stretch out her hands to God.
Psalms	68:32	O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, Selah
Psalms	68:33	to him who rides in the heavens, the ancient heavens; behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty voice.
Psalms	68:34	Ascribe power to God, whose majesty is over Israel, and whose power is in the skies.
Psalms	68:35	Awesome is God from his sanctuary; the God of Israel--he is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God!
Psalms	69:1	Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck.
Psalms	69:2	I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me.
Psalms	69:3	I am weary with my crying out; my throat is parched. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God.
Psalms	69:4	More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore?
Psalms	69:5	O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you.
Psalms	69:6	Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel.
Psalms	69:7	For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face.
Psalms	69:8	I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons.
Psalms	69:9	For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.
Psalms	69:10	When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach.
Psalms	69:11	When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
Psalms	69:12	I am the talk of those who sit in the gate, and the drunkards make songs about me.
Psalms	69:13	But as for me, my prayer is to you, O LORD. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness.
Psalms	69:14	Deliver me from sinking in the mire; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters.
Psalms	69:15	Let not the flood sweep over me, or the deep swallow me up, or the pit close its mouth over me.
Psalms	69:16	Answer me, O LORD, for your steadfast love is good; according to your abundant mercy, turn to me.
Psalms	69:17	Hide not your face from your servant; for I am in distress; make haste to answer me.
Psalms	69:18	Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies!
Psalms	69:19	You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you.
Psalms	69:20	Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none.
Psalms	69:21	They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink.
Psalms	69:22	Let their own table before them become a snare; and when they are at peace, let it become a trap.
Psalms	69:23	Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually.
Psalms	69:24	Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them.
Psalms	69:25	May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents.
Psalms	69:26	For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded.
Psalms	69:27	Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no acquittal from you.
Psalms	69:28	Let them be blotted out of the book of the living; let them not be enrolled among the righteous.
Psalms	69:29	But I am afflicted and in pain; let your salvation, O God, set me on high!
Psalms	69:30	I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving.
Psalms	69:31	This will please the LORD more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs.
Psalms	69:32	When the humble see it they will be glad; you who seek God, let your hearts revive.
Psalms	69:33	For the LORD hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners.
Psalms	69:34	Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them.
Psalms	69:35	For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it;
Psalms	69:36	the offspring of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell in it.
Psalms	70:1	Make haste, O God, to deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me!
Psalms	70:2	Let them be put to shame and confusion who seek my life! Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor who desire my hurt!
Psalms	70:3	Let them turn back because of their shame who say, "Aha, Aha!"
Psalms	70:4	May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love your salvation say evermore, "God is great!"
Psalms	70:5	But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, do not delay!
Psalms	71:1	In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame!
Psalms	71:2	In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; incline your ear to me, and save me!
Psalms	71:3	Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come; you have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
Psalms	71:4	Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man.
Psalms	71:5	For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O LORD, from my youth.
Psalms	71:6	Upon you I have leaned from before my birth; you are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you.
Psalms	71:7	I have been as a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge.
Psalms	71:8	My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day.
Psalms	71:9	Do not cast me off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent.
Psalms	71:10	For my enemies speak concerning me; those who watch for my life consult together
Psalms	71:11	and say, "God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him."
Psalms	71:12	O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me!
Psalms	71:13	May my accusers be put to shame and consumed; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt.
Psalms	71:14	But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more.
Psalms	71:15	My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge.
Psalms	71:16	With the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone.
Psalms	71:17	O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds.
Psalms	71:18	So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me, until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come.
Psalms	71:19	Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you?
Psalms	71:20	You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again; from the depths of the earth you will bring me up again.
Psalms	71:21	You will increase my greatness and comfort me again.
Psalms	71:22	I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God; I will sing praises to you with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
Psalms	71:23	My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed.
Psalms	71:24	And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long, for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt.
Psalms	72:1	Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son!
Psalms	72:2	May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice!
Psalms	72:3	Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness!
Psalms	72:4	May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor!
Psalms	72:5	May they fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon, throughout all generations!
Psalms	72:6	May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth!
Psalms	72:7	In his days may the righteous flourish, and peace abound, till the moon be no more!
Psalms	72:8	May he have dominion from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth!
Psalms	72:9	May desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies lick the dust!
Psalms	72:10	May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute; may the kings of Sheba and Seba bring gifts!
Psalms	72:11	May all kings fall down before him, all nations serve him!
Psalms	72:12	For he delivers the needy when he calls, the poor and him who has no helper.
Psalms	72:13	He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the needy.
Psalms	72:14	From oppression and violence he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight.
Psalms	72:15	Long may he live; may gold of Sheba be given to him! May prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day!
Psalms	72:16	May there be abundance of grain in the land; on the tops of the mountains may it wave; may its fruit be like Lebanon; and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field!
Psalms	72:17	May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the sun! May people be blessed in him, all nations call him blessed!
Psalms	72:18	Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things.
Psalms	72:19	Blessed be his glorious name forever; may the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and Amen!
Psalms	72:20	The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended.
Psalms	73:1	Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.
Psalms	73:2	But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped.
Psalms	73:3	For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
Psalms	73:4	For they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek.
Psalms	73:5	They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind.
Psalms	73:6	Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment.
Psalms	73:7	Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies.
Psalms	73:8	They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression.
Psalms	73:9	They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth.
Psalms	73:10	Therefore his people turn back to them, and find no fault in them.
Psalms	73:11	And they say, "How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?"
Psalms	73:12	Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches.
Psalms	73:13	All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence.
Psalms	73:14	For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning.
Psalms	73:15	If I had said, "I will speak thus," I would have betrayed the generation of your children.
Psalms	73:16	But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task,
Psalms	73:17	until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I discerned their end.
Psalms	73:18	Truly you set them in slippery places; you make them fall to ruin.
Psalms	73:19	How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors!
Psalms	73:20	Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms.
Psalms	73:21	When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart,
Psalms	73:22	I was brutish and ignorant; I was like a beast toward you.
Psalms	73:23	Nevertheless, I am continually with you; you hold my right hand.
Psalms	73:24	You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory.
Psalms	73:25	Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you.
Psalms	73:26	My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
Psalms	73:27	For behold, those who are far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you.
Psalms	73:28	But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.
Psalms	74:1	O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture?
Psalms	74:2	Remember your congregation, which you have purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage! Remember Mount Zion, where you have dwelt.
Psalms	74:3	Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary!
Psalms	74:4	Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place; they set up their own signs for signs.
Psalms	74:5	They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees.
Psalms	74:6	And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers.
Psalms	74:7	They set your sanctuary on fire; they profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground.
Psalms	74:8	They said to themselves, "We will utterly subdue them"; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land.
Psalms	74:9	We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long.
Psalms	74:10	How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever?
Psalms	74:11	Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them!
Psalms	74:12	Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
Psalms	74:13	You divided the sea by your might; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters.
Psalms	74:14	You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness.
Psalms	74:15	You split open springs and brooks; you dried up ever-flowing streams.
Psalms	74:16	Yours is the day, yours also the night; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun.
Psalms	74:17	You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth; you have made summer and winter.
Psalms	74:18	Remember this, O LORD, how the enemy scoffs, and a foolish people reviles your name.
Psalms	74:19	Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts; do not forget the life of your poor forever.
Psalms	74:20	Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.
Psalms	74:21	Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame; let the poor and needy praise your name.
Psalms	74:22	Arise, O God, defend your cause; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day!
Psalms	74:23	Do not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually!
Psalms	75:1	We give thanks to you, O God; we give thanks, for your name is near. We recount your wondrous deeds.
Psalms	75:2	"At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity.
Psalms	75:3	When the earth totters, and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep steady its pillars. Selah
Psalms	75:4	I say to the boastful, 'Do not boast,' and to the wicked, 'Do not lift up your horn;
Psalms	75:5	do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck.'"
Psalms	75:6	For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up,
Psalms	75:7	but it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another.
Psalms	75:8	For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs.
Psalms	75:9	But I will declare it forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
Psalms	75:10	All the horns of the wicked I will cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up.
Psalms	76:1	In Judah God is known; his name is great in Israel.
Psalms	76:2	His abode has been established in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion.
Psalms	76:3	There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah
Psalms	76:4	Glorious are you, more majestic than the mountains of prey.
Psalms	76:5	The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil; they sank into sleep; all the men of war were unable to use their hands.
Psalms	76:6	At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both rider and horse lay stunned.
Psalms	76:7	But you, you are to be feared! Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused?
Psalms	76:8	From the heavens you uttered judgment; the earth feared and was still,
Psalms	76:9	when God arose to establish judgment, to save all the humble of the earth. Selah
Psalms	76:10	Surely the wrath of man shall praise you; the remnant of wrath you will put on like a belt.
Psalms	76:11	Make your vows to the LORD your God and perform them; let all around him bring gifts to him who is to be feared,
Psalms	76:12	who cuts off the spirit of princes, who is to be feared by the kings of the earth.
Psalms	77:1	I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me.
Psalms	77:2	In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying; my soul refuses to be comforted.
Psalms	77:3	When I remember God, I moan; when I meditate, my spirit faints. Selah
Psalms	77:4	You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
Psalms	77:5	I consider the days of old, the years long ago.
Psalms	77:6	I said, "Let me remember my song in the night; let me meditate in my heart." Then my spirit made a diligent search:
Psalms	77:7	"Will the Lord spurn forever, and never again be favorable?
Psalms	77:8	Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time?
Psalms	77:9	Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion?" Selah
Psalms	77:10	Then I said, "I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High."
Psalms	77:11	I will remember the deeds of the LORD; yes, I will remember your wonders of old.
Psalms	77:12	I will ponder all your work, and meditate on your mighty deeds.
Psalms	77:13	Your way, O God, is holy. What god is great like our God?
Psalms	77:14	You are the God who works wonders; you have made known your might among the peoples.
Psalms	77:15	You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Selah
Psalms	77:16	When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid; indeed, the deep trembled.
Psalms	77:17	The clouds poured out water; the skies gave forth thunder; your arrows flashed on every side.
Psalms	77:18	The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind; your lightnings lighted up the world; the earth trembled and shook.
Psalms	77:19	Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters; yet your footprints were unseen.
Psalms	77:20	You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalms	78:1	Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth!
Psalms	78:2	I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings from of old,
Psalms	78:3	things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us.
Psalms	78:4	We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the LORD, and his might, and the wonders that he has done.
Psalms	78:5	He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children,
Psalms	78:6	that the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children,
Psalms	78:7	so that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments;
Psalms	78:8	and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God.
Psalms	78:9	The Ephraimites, armed with the bow, turned back on the day of battle.
Psalms	78:10	They did not keep God's covenant, but refused to walk according to his law.
Psalms	78:11	They forgot his works and the wonders that he had shown them.
Psalms	78:12	In the sight of their fathers he performed wonders in the land of Egypt, in the fields of Zoan.
Psalms	78:13	He divided the sea and let them pass through it, and made the waters stand like a heap.
Psalms	78:14	In the daytime he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a fiery light.
Psalms	78:15	He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep.
Psalms	78:16	He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers.
Psalms	78:17	Yet they sinned still more against him, rebelling against the Most High in the desert.
Psalms	78:18	They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved.
Psalms	78:19	They spoke against God, saying, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
Psalms	78:20	He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed. Can he also give bread or provide meat for his people?"
Psalms	78:21	Therefore, when the LORD heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob; his anger rose against Israel,
Psalms	78:22	because they did not believe in God and did not trust his saving power.
Psalms	78:23	Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven,
Psalms	78:24	and he rained down on them manna to eat and gave them the grain of heaven.
Psalms	78:25	Man ate of the bread of the angels; he sent them food in abundance.
Psalms	78:26	He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he led out the south wind;
Psalms	78:27	he rained meat on them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas;
Psalms	78:28	he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their dwellings.
Psalms	78:29	And they ate and were well filled, for he gave them what they craved.
Psalms	78:30	But before they had satisfied their craving, while the food was still in their mouths,
Psalms	78:31	the anger of God rose against them, and he killed the strongest of them and laid low the young men of Israel.
Psalms	78:32	In spite of all this, they still sinned; despite his wonders, they did not believe.
Psalms	78:33	So he made their days vanish like a breath, and their years in terror.
Psalms	78:34	When he killed them, they sought him; they repented and sought God earnestly.
Psalms	78:35	They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God their redeemer.
Psalms	78:36	But they flattered him with their mouths; they lied to him with their tongues.
Psalms	78:37	Their heart was not steadfast toward him; they were not faithful to his covenant.
Psalms	78:38	Yet he, being compassionate, atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often and did not stir up all his wrath.
Psalms	78:39	He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and comes not again.
Psalms	78:40	How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert!
Psalms	78:41	They tested God again and again and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
Psalms	78:42	They did not remember his power or the day when he redeemed them from the foe,
Psalms	78:43	when he performed his signs in Egypt and his marvels in the fields of Zoan.
Psalms	78:44	He turned their rivers to blood, so that they could not drink of their streams.
Psalms	78:45	He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them.
Psalms	78:46	He gave their crops to the destroying locust and the fruit of their labor to the locust.
Psalms	78:47	He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamores with frost.
Psalms	78:48	He gave over their cattle to the hail and their flocks to thunderbolts.
Psalms	78:49	He let loose on them his burning anger, wrath, indignation, and distress, a company of destroying angels.
Psalms	78:50	He made a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death, but gave their lives over to the plague.
Psalms	78:51	He struck down every firstborn in Egypt, the firstfruits of their strength in the tents of Ham.
Psalms	78:52	Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Psalms	78:53	He led them in safety, so that they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Psalms	78:54	And he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won.
Psalms	78:55	He drove out nations before them; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.
Psalms	78:56	Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his testimonies,
Psalms	78:57	but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow.
Psalms	78:58	For they provoked him to anger with their high places; they moved him to jealousy with their idols.
Psalms	78:59	When God heard, he was full of wrath, and he utterly rejected Israel.
Psalms	78:60	He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh, the tent where he dwelt among mankind,
Psalms	78:61	and delivered his power to captivity, his glory to the hand of the foe.
Psalms	78:62	He gave his people over to the sword and vented his wrath on his heritage.
Psalms	78:63	Fire devoured their young men, and their young women had no marriage song.
Psalms	78:64	Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation.
Psalms	78:65	Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, like a strong man shouting because of wine.
Psalms	78:66	And he put his adversaries to rout; he put them to everlasting shame.
Psalms	78:67	He rejected the tent of Joseph; he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim,
Psalms	78:68	but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves.
Psalms	78:69	He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth, which he has founded forever.
Psalms	78:70	He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds;
Psalms	78:71	from following the nursing ewes he brought him to shepherd Jacob his people, Israel his inheritance.
Psalms	78:72	With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand.
Psalms	79:1	O God, the nations have come into your inheritance; they have defiled your holy temple; they have laid Jerusalem in ruins.
Psalms	79:2	They have given the bodies of your servants to the birds of the heavens for food, the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth.
Psalms	79:3	They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one to bury them.
Psalms	79:4	We have become a taunt to our neighbors, mocked and derided by those around us.
Psalms	79:5	How long, O LORD? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire?
Psalms	79:6	Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you, and on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name!
Psalms	79:7	For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation.
Psalms	79:8	Do not remember against us our former iniquities; let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low.
Psalms	79:9	Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name; deliver us, and atone for our sins, for your name's sake!
Psalms	79:10	Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes!
Psalms	79:11	Let the groans of the prisoners come before you; according to your great power, preserve those doomed to die!
Psalms	79:12	Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord!
Psalms	79:13	But we your people, the sheep of your pasture, will give thanks to you forever; from generation to generation we will recount your praise.
Psalms	80:1	Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth.
Psalms	80:2	Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us!
Psalms	80:3	Restore us, O God; let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalms	80:4	O LORD God of hosts, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers?
Psalms	80:5	You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure.
Psalms	80:6	You make us an object of contention for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves.
Psalms	80:7	Restore us, O God of hosts; let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalms	80:8	You brought a vine out of Egypt; you drove out the nations and planted it.
Psalms	80:9	You cleared the ground for it; it took deep root and filled the land.
Psalms	80:10	The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches.
Psalms	80:11	It sent out its branches to the sea and its shoots to the River.
Psalms	80:12	Why then have you broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit?
Psalms	80:13	The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it.
Psalms	80:14	Turn again, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine,
Psalms	80:15	the stock that your right hand planted, and for the son whom you made strong for yourself.
Psalms	80:16	They have burned it with fire; they have cut it down; may they perish at the rebuke of your face!
Psalms	80:17	But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself!
Psalms	80:18	Then we shall not turn back from you; give us life, and we will call upon your name!
Psalms	80:19	Restore us, O LORD God of hosts! let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalms	81:1	Sing aloud to God our strength; shout for joy to the God of Jacob!
Psalms	81:2	Raise a song; sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp.
Psalms	81:3	Blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
Psalms	81:4	For it is a statute for Israel, a rule of the God of Jacob.
Psalms	81:5	He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a language I had not known:
Psalms	81:6	"I relieved your shoulder of the burden; your hands were freed from the basket.
Psalms	81:7	In distress you called, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Selah
Psalms	81:8	Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me!
Psalms	81:9	There shall be no strange god among you; you shall not bow down to a foreign god.
Psalms	81:10	I am the LORD your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
Psalms	81:11	"But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel would not submit to me.
Psalms	81:12	So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts, to follow their own counsels.
Psalms	81:13	Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways!
Psalms	81:14	I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes.
Psalms	81:15	Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever.
Psalms	81:16	But he would feed you with the finest of the wheat, and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you."
Psalms	82:1	God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst of the gods he holds judgment:
Psalms	82:2	"How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah
Psalms	82:3	Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.
Psalms	82:4	Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked."
Psalms	82:5	They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness; all the foundations of the earth are shaken.
Psalms	82:6	I said, "You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
Psalms	82:7	nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall like any prince."
Psalms	82:8	Arise, O God, judge the earth; for you shall inherit all the nations!
Psalms	83:1	O God, do not keep silence; do not hold your peace or be still, O God!
Psalms	83:2	For behold, your enemies make an uproar; those who hate you have raised their heads.
Psalms	83:3	They lay crafty plans against your people; they consult together against your treasured ones.
Psalms	83:4	They say, "Come, let us wipe them out as a nation; let the name of Israel be remembered no more!"
Psalms	83:5	For they conspire with one accord; against you they make a covenant--
Psalms	83:6	the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites,
Psalms	83:7	Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;
Psalms	83:8	Asshur also has joined them; they are the strong arm of the children of Lot. Selah
Psalms	83:9	Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon,
Psalms	83:10	who were destroyed at En-dor, who became dung for the ground.
Psalms	83:11	Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna,
Psalms	83:12	who said, "Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God."
Psalms	83:13	O my God, make them like whirling dust, like chaff before the wind.
Psalms	83:14	As fire consumes the forest, as the flame sets the mountains ablaze,
Psalms	83:15	so may you pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane!
Psalms	83:16	Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek your name, O LORD.
Psalms	83:17	Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever; let them perish in disgrace,
Psalms	83:18	that they may know that you alone, whose name is the LORD, are the Most High over all the earth.
Psalms	84:1	How lovely is your dwelling place, O LORD of hosts!
Psalms	84:2	My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the LORD; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God.
Psalms	84:3	Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O LORD of hosts, my King and my God.
Psalms	84:4	Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise! Selah
Psalms	84:5	Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion.
Psalms	84:6	As they go through the Valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with pools.
Psalms	84:7	They go from strength to strength; each one appears before God in Zion.
Psalms	84:8	O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah
Psalms	84:9	Behold our shield, O God; look on the face of your anointed!
Psalms	84:10	For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness.
Psalms	84:11	For the LORD God is a sun and shield; the LORD bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly.
Psalms	84:12	O LORD of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you!
Psalms	85:1	LORD, you were favorable to your land; you restored the fortunes of Jacob.
Psalms	85:2	You forgave the iniquity of your people; you covered all their sin. Selah
Psalms	85:3	You withdrew all your wrath; you turned from your hot anger.
Psalms	85:4	Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away your indignation toward us!
Psalms	85:5	Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations?
Psalms	85:6	Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you?
Psalms	85:7	Show us your steadfast love, O LORD, and grant us your salvation.
Psalms	85:8	Let me hear what God the LORD will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints; but let them not turn back to folly.
Psalms	85:9	Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
Psalms	85:10	Steadfast love and faithfulness meet; righteousness and peace kiss each other.
Psalms	85:11	Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky.
Psalms	85:12	Yes, the LORD will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase.
Psalms	85:13	Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way.
Psalms	86:1	Incline your ear, O LORD, and answer me, for I am poor and needy.
Psalms	86:2	Preserve my life, for I am godly; save your servant, who trusts in you--you are my God.
Psalms	86:3	Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day.
Psalms	86:4	Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Psalms	86:5	For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you.
Psalms	86:6	Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; listen to my plea for grace.
Psalms	86:7	In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me.
Psalms	86:8	There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours.
Psalms	86:9	All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name.
Psalms	86:10	For you are great and do wondrous things; you alone are God.
Psalms	86:11	Teach me your way, O LORD, that I may walk in your truth; unite my heart to fear your name.
Psalms	86:12	I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever.
Psalms	86:13	For great is your steadfast love toward me; you have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.
Psalms	86:14	O God, insolent men have risen up against me; a band of ruthless men seek my life, and they do not set you before them.
Psalms	86:15	But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.
Psalms	86:16	Turn to me and be gracious to me; give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your maidservant.
Psalms	86:17	Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame because you, LORD, have helped me and comforted me.
Psalms	87:1	On the holy mount stands the city he founded;
Psalms	87:2	the LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob.
Psalms	87:3	Glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God. Selah
Psalms	87:4	Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon; behold, Philistia and Tyre, with Cush--"This one was born there," they say.
Psalms	87:5	And of Zion it shall be said, "This one and that one were born in her"; for the Most High himself will establish her.
Psalms	87:6	The LORD records as he registers the peoples, "This one was born there." Selah
Psalms	87:7	Singers and dancers alike say, "All my springs are in you."
Psalms	88:1	O LORD, God of my salvation; I cry out day and night before you.
Psalms	88:2	Let my prayer come before you; incline your ear to my cry!
Psalms	88:3	For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol.
Psalms	88:4	I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am a man who has no strength,
Psalms	88:5	like one set loose among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom you remember no more, for they are cut off from your hand.
Psalms	88:6	You have put me in the depths of the pit, in the regions dark and deep.
Psalms	88:7	Your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with all your waves. Selah
Psalms	88:8	You have caused my companions to shun me; you have made me a horror to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape;
Psalms	88:9	my eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O LORD; I spread out my hands to you.
Psalms	88:10	Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Selah
Psalms	88:11	Is your steadfast love declared in the grave, or your faithfulness in Abaddon?
Psalms	88:12	Are your wonders known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
Psalms	88:13	But I, O LORD, cry to you; in the morning my prayer comes before you.
Psalms	88:14	O LORD, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me?
Psalms	88:15	Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.
Psalms	88:16	Your wrath has swept over me; your dreadful assaults destroy me.
Psalms	88:17	They surround me like a flood all day long; they close in on me together.
Psalms	88:18	You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me; my companions have become darkness.
Psalms	89:1	I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD, forever; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.
Psalms	89:2	For I said, "Steadfast love will be built up forever; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness."
Psalms	89:3	You have said, "I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn to David my servant:
Psalms	89:4	'I will establish your offspring forever, and build your throne for all generations.'" Selah
Psalms	89:5	Let the heavens praise your wonders, O LORD, your faithfulness in the assembly of the holy ones!
Psalms	89:6	For who in the skies can be compared to the LORD? Who among the heavenly beings is like the LORD,
Psalms	89:7	a God greatly to be feared in the council of the holy ones, and awesome above all who are around him?
Psalms	89:8	O LORD God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, O LORD, with your faithfulness all around you?
Psalms	89:9	You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves rise, you still them.
Psalms	89:10	You crushed Rahab like a carcass; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
Psalms	89:11	The heavens are yours; the earth also is yours; the world and all that is in it, you have founded them.
Psalms	89:12	The north and the south, you have created them; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name.
Psalms	89:13	You have a mighty arm; strong is your hand, high your right hand.
Psalms	89:14	Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you.
Psalms	89:15	Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O LORD, in the light of your face,
Psalms	89:16	who exult in your name all the day and in your righteousness are exalted.
Psalms	89:17	For you are the glory of their strength; by your favor our horn is exalted.
Psalms	89:18	For our shield belongs to the LORD, our king to the Holy One of Israel.
Psalms	89:19	Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one, and said: "I have granted help to one who is mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people.
Psalms	89:20	I have found David, my servant; with my holy oil I have anointed him,
Psalms	89:21	so that my hand shall be established with him; my arm also shall strengthen him.
Psalms	89:22	The enemy shall not outwit him; the wicked shall not humble him.
Psalms	89:23	I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him.
Psalms	89:24	My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
Psalms	89:25	I will set his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers.
Psalms	89:26	He shall cry to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation.'
Psalms	89:27	And I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
Psalms	89:28	My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my covenant will stand firm for him.
Psalms	89:29	I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of the heavens.
Psalms	89:30	If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules,
Psalms	89:31	if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments,
Psalms	89:32	then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes,
Psalms	89:33	but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness.
Psalms	89:34	I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips.
Psalms	89:35	Once for all I have sworn by my holiness; I will not lie to David.
Psalms	89:36	His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me.
Psalms	89:37	Like the moon it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies." Selah
Psalms	89:38	But now you have cast off and rejected; you are full of wrath against your anointed.
Psalms	89:39	You have renounced the covenant with your servant; you have defiled his crown in the dust.
Psalms	89:40	You have breached all his walls; you have laid his strongholds in ruins.
Psalms	89:41	All who pass by plunder him; he has become the scorn of his neighbors.
Psalms	89:42	You have exalted the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice.
Psalms	89:43	You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and you have not made him stand in battle.
Psalms	89:44	You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground.
Psalms	89:45	You have cut short the days of his youth; you have covered him with shame. Selah
Psalms	89:46	How long, O LORD? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire?
Psalms	89:47	Remember how short my time is! For what vanity you have created all the children of man!
Psalms	89:48	What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah
Psalms	89:49	Lord, where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David?
Psalms	89:50	Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked, and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations,
Psalms	89:51	with which your enemies mock, O LORD, with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed.
Psalms	89:52	Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen.
Psalms	90:1	Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations.
Psalms	90:2	Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God.
Psalms	90:3	You return man to dust and say, "Return, O children of man!"
Psalms	90:4	For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night.
Psalms	90:5	You sweep them away as with a flood; they are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning:
Psalms	90:6	in the morning it flourishes and is renewed; in the evening it fades and withers.
Psalms	90:7	For we are brought to an end by your anger; by your wrath we are dismayed.
Psalms	90:8	You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence.
Psalms	90:9	For all our days pass away under your wrath; we bring our years to an end like a sigh.
Psalms	90:10	The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span is but toil and trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away.
Psalms	90:11	Who considers the power of your anger, and your wrath according to the fear of you?
Psalms	90:12	So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom.
Psalms	90:13	Return, O LORD! How long? Have pity on your servants!
Psalms	90:14	Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Psalms	90:15	Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil.
Psalms	90:16	Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children.
Psalms	90:17	Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands!
Psalms	91:1	He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.
Psalms	91:2	I will say to the LORD, "My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust."
Psalms	91:3	For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence.
Psalms	91:4	He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness is a shield and buckler.
Psalms	91:5	You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day,
Psalms	91:6	nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday.
Psalms	91:7	A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you.
Psalms	91:8	You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked.
Psalms	91:9	Because you have made the LORD your dwelling place--the Most High, who is my refuge--
Psalms	91:10	no evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent.
Psalms	91:11	For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways.
Psalms	91:12	On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
Psalms	91:13	You will tread on the lion and the adder; the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot.
Psalms	91:14	"Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him; I will protect him, because he knows my name.
Psalms	91:15	When he calls to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him and honor him.
Psalms	91:16	With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation."
Psalms	92:1	It is good to give thanks to the LORD, to sing praises to your name, O Most High;
Psalms	92:2	to declare your steadfast love in the morning, and your faithfulness by night,
Psalms	92:3	to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre.
Psalms	92:4	For you, O LORD, have made me glad by your work; at the works of your hands I sing for joy.
Psalms	92:5	How great are your works, O LORD! Your thoughts are very deep!
Psalms	92:6	The stupid man cannot know; the fool cannot understand this:
Psalms	92:7	that though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction forever;
Psalms	92:8	but you, O LORD, are on high forever.
Psalms	92:9	For behold, your enemies, O LORD, for behold, your enemies shall perish; all evildoers shall be scattered.
Psalms	92:10	But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox; you have poured over me fresh oil.
Psalms	92:11	My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants.
Psalms	92:12	The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
Psalms	92:13	They are planted in the house of the LORD; they flourish in the courts of our God.
Psalms	92:14	They still bear fruit in old age; they are ever full of sap and green,
Psalms	92:15	to declare that the LORD is upright; he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
Psalms	93:1	The LORD reigns; he is robed in majesty; the LORD is robed; he has put on strength as his belt. Yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved.
Psalms	93:2	Your throne is established from of old; you are from everlasting.
Psalms	93:3	The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their roaring.
Psalms	93:4	Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea, the LORD on high is mighty!
Psalms	93:5	Your decrees are very trustworthy; holiness befits your house, O LORD, forevermore.
Psalms	94:1	O LORD, God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth!
Psalms	94:2	Rise up, O judge of the earth; repay to the proud what they deserve!
Psalms	94:3	O LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult?
Psalms	94:4	They pour out their arrogant words; all the evildoers boast.
Psalms	94:5	They crush your people, O LORD, and afflict your heritage.
Psalms	94:6	They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless;
Psalms	94:7	and they say, "The LORD does not see; the God of Jacob does not perceive."
Psalms	94:8	Understand, O dullest of the people! Fools, when will you be wise?
Psalms	94:9	He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see?
Psalms	94:10	He who disciplines the nations, does he not rebuke? He who teaches man knowledge--
Psalms	94:11	the LORD--knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath.
Psalms	94:12	Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O LORD, and whom you teach out of your law,
Psalms	94:13	to give him rest from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked.
Psalms	94:14	For the LORD will not forsake his people; he will not abandon his heritage;
Psalms	94:15	for justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it.
Psalms	94:16	Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers?
Psalms	94:17	If the LORD had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence.
Psalms	94:18	When I thought, "My foot slips," your steadfast love, O LORD, held me up.
Psalms	94:19	When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul.
Psalms	94:20	Can wicked rulers be allied with you, those who frame injustice by statute?
Psalms	94:21	They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death.
Psalms	94:22	But the LORD has become my stronghold, and my God the rock of my refuge.
Psalms	94:23	He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness; the LORD our God will wipe them out.
Psalms	95:1	Oh come, let us sing to the LORD; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation!
Psalms	95:2	Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!
Psalms	95:3	For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
Psalms	95:4	In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his also.
Psalms	95:5	The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land.
Psalms	95:6	Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the LORD, our Maker!
Psalms	95:7	For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hear his voice,
Psalms	95:8	do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness,
Psalms	95:9	when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work.
Psalms	95:10	For forty years I loathed that generation and said, "They are a people who go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways."
Psalms	95:11	Therefore I swore in my wrath, "They shall not enter my rest."
Psalms	96:1	Oh sing to the LORD a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth!
Psalms	96:2	Sing to the LORD, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.
Psalms	96:3	Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
Psalms	96:4	For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods.
Psalms	96:5	For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
Psalms	96:6	Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
Psalms	96:7	Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
Psalms	96:8	Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering, and come into his courts!
Psalms	96:9	Worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness; tremble before him, all the earth!
Psalms	96:10	Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns! Yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved; he will judge the peoples with equity."
Psalms	96:11	Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all that fills it;
Psalms	96:12	let the field exult, and everything in it! Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy
Psalms	96:13	before the LORD, for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness.
Psalms	97:1	The LORD reigns, let the earth rejoice; let the many coastlands be glad!
Psalms	97:2	Clouds and thick darkness are all around him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
Psalms	97:3	Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around.
Psalms	97:4	His lightnings light up the world; the earth sees and trembles.
Psalms	97:5	The mountains melt like wax before the LORD, before the Lord of all the earth.
Psalms	97:6	The heavens proclaim his righteousness, and all the peoples see his glory.
Psalms	97:7	All worshipers of images are put to shame, who make their boast in worthless idols; worship him, all you gods!
Psalms	97:8	Zion hears and is glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoice, because of your judgments, O LORD.
Psalms	97:9	For you, O LORD, are most high over all the earth; you are exalted far above all gods.
Psalms	97:10	O you who love the LORD, hate evil! He preserves the lives of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked.
Psalms	97:11	Light is sown for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.
Psalms	97:12	Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous, and give thanks to his holy name!
Psalms	98:1	Oh sing to the LORD a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him.
Psalms	98:2	The LORD has made known his salvation; he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations.
Psalms	98:3	He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
Psalms	98:4	Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises!
Psalms	98:5	Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody!
Psalms	98:6	With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the LORD!
Psalms	98:7	Let the sea roar, and all that fills it; the world and those who dwell in it!
Psalms	98:8	Let the rivers clap their hands; let the hills sing for joy together
Psalms	98:9	before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.
Psalms	99:1	The LORD reigns; let the peoples tremble! He sits enthroned upon the cherubim; let the earth quake!
Psalms	99:2	The LORD is great in Zion; he is exalted over all the peoples.
Psalms	99:3	Let them praise your great and awesome name! Holy is he!
Psalms	99:4	The King in his might loves justice. You have established equity; you have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob.
Psalms	99:5	Exalt the LORD our God; worship at his footstool! Holy is he!
Psalms	99:6	Moses and Aaron were among his priests, Samuel also was among those who called upon his name. They called to the LORD, and he answered them.
Psalms	99:7	In the pillar of the cloud he spoke to them; they kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them.
Psalms	99:8	O LORD our God, you answered them; you were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their wrongdoings.
Psalms	99:9	Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy mountain; for the LORD our God is holy!
Psalms	100:1	Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth!
Psalms	100:2	Serve the LORD with gladness! Come into his presence with singing!
Psalms	100:3	Know that the LORD, he is God! It is he who made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
Psalms	100:4	Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name!
Psalms	100:5	For the LORD is good; his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations.
Psalms	101:1	I will sing of steadfast love and justice; to you, O LORD, I will make music.
Psalms	101:2	I will ponder the way that is blameless. Oh when will you come to me? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house;
Psalms	101:3	I will not set before my eyes anything that is worthless. I hate the work of those who fall away; it shall not cling to me.
Psalms	101:4	A perverse heart shall be far from me; I will know nothing of evil.
Psalms	101:5	Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly I will destroy. Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart I will not endure.
Psalms	101:6	I will look with favor on the faithful in the land, that they may dwell with me; he who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me.
Psalms	101:7	No one who practices deceit shall dwell in my house; no one who utters lies shall continue before my eyes.
Psalms	101:8	Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land, cutting off all the evildoers from the city of the LORD.
Psalms	102:1	Hear my prayer, O LORD; let my cry come to you!
Psalms	102:2	Do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress! Incline your ear to me; answer me speedily in the day when I call!
Psalms	102:3	For my days pass away like smoke, and my bones burn like a furnace.
Psalms	102:4	My heart is struck down like grass and has withered; I forget to eat my bread.
Psalms	102:5	Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh.
Psalms	102:6	I am like a desert owl of the wilderness, like an owl of the waste places;
Psalms	102:7	I lie awake; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop.
Psalms	102:8	All the day my enemies taunt me; those who deride me use my name for a curse.
Psalms	102:9	For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink,
Psalms	102:10	because of your indignation and anger; for you have taken me up and thrown me down.
Psalms	102:11	My days are like an evening shadow; I wither away like grass.
Psalms	102:12	But you, O LORD, are enthroned forever; you are remembered throughout all generations.
Psalms	102:13	You will arise and have pity on Zion; it is the time to favor her; the appointed time has come.
Psalms	102:14	For your servants hold her stones dear and have pity on her dust.
Psalms	102:15	Nations will fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth will fear your glory.
Psalms	102:16	For the LORD builds up Zion; he appears in his glory;
Psalms	102:17	he regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer.
Psalms	102:18	Let this be recorded for a generation to come, so that a people yet to be created may praise the LORD:
Psalms	102:19	that he looked down from his holy height; from heaven the LORD looked at the earth,
Psalms	102:20	to hear the groans of the prisoners, to set free those who were doomed to die,
Psalms	102:21	that they may declare in Zion the name of the LORD, and in Jerusalem his praise,
Psalms	102:22	when peoples gather together, and kingdoms, to worship the LORD.
Psalms	102:23	He has broken my strength in midcourse; he has shortened my days.
Psalms	102:24	"O my God," I say, "take me not away in the midst of my days--you whose years endure throughout all generations!"
Psalms	102:25	Of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands.
Psalms	102:26	They will perish, but you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away,
Psalms	102:27	but you are the same, and your years have no end.
Psalms	102:28	The children of your servants shall dwell secure; their offspring shall be established before you.
Psalms	103:1	Bless the LORD, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name!
Psalms	103:2	Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits,
Psalms	103:3	who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases,
Psalms	103:4	who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,
Psalms	103:5	who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.
Psalms	103:6	The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed.
Psalms	103:7	He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel.
Psalms	103:8	The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psalms	103:9	He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever.
Psalms	103:10	He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities.
Psalms	103:11	For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him;
Psalms	103:12	as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us.
Psalms	103:13	As a father shows compassion to his children, so the LORD shows compassion to those who fear him.
Psalms	103:14	For he knows our frame; he remembers that we are dust.
Psalms	103:15	As for man, his days are like grass; he flourishes like a flower of the field;
Psalms	103:16	for the wind passes over it, and it is gone, and its place knows it no more.
Psalms	103:17	But the steadfast love of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children,
Psalms	103:18	to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments.
Psalms	103:19	The LORD has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all.
Psalms	103:20	Bless the LORD, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word!
Psalms	103:21	Bless the LORD, all his hosts, his ministers, who do his will!
Psalms	103:22	Bless the LORD, all his works, in all places of his dominion. Bless the LORD, O my soul!
Psalms	104:1	Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and majesty,
Psalms	104:2	covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent.
Psalms	104:3	He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the wings of the wind;
Psalms	104:4	he makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire.
Psalms	104:5	He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved.
Psalms	104:6	You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains.
Psalms	104:7	At your rebuke they fled; at the sound of your thunder they took to flight.
Psalms	104:8	The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them.
Psalms	104:9	You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth.
Psalms	104:10	You make springs gush forth in the valleys; they flow between the hills;
Psalms	104:11	they give drink to every beast of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.
Psalms	104:12	Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell; they sing among the branches.
Psalms	104:13	From your lofty abode you water the mountains; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work.
Psalms	104:14	You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth
Psalms	104:15	and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine and bread to strengthen man's heart.
Psalms	104:16	The trees of the LORD are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted.
Psalms	104:17	In them the birds build their nests; the stork has her home in the fir trees.
Psalms	104:18	The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.
Psalms	104:19	He made the moon to mark the seasons; the sun knows its time for setting.
Psalms	104:20	You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about.
Psalms	104:21	The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God.
Psalms	104:22	When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens.
Psalms	104:23	Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening.
Psalms	104:24	O LORD, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures.
Psalms	104:25	Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small and great.
Psalms	104:26	There go the ships, and Leviathan, which you formed to play in it.
Psalms	104:27	These all look to you, to give them their food in due season.
Psalms	104:28	When you give it to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are filled with good things.
Psalms	104:29	When you hide your face, they are dismayed; when you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust.
Psalms	104:30	When you send forth your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground.
Psalms	104:31	May the glory of the LORD endure forever; may the LORD rejoice in his works,
Psalms	104:32	who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke!
Psalms	104:33	I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being.
Psalms	104:34	May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the LORD.
Psalms	104:35	Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more! Bless the LORD, O my soul! Praise the LORD!
Psalms	105:1	Oh give thanks to the LORD; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples!
Psalms	105:2	Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!
Psalms	105:3	Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
Psalms	105:4	Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually!
Psalms	105:5	Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he uttered,
Psalms	105:6	O offspring of Abraham, his servant, children of Jacob, his chosen ones!
Psalms	105:7	He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
Psalms	105:8	He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
Psalms	105:9	the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,
Psalms	105:10	which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
Psalms	105:11	saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance."
Psalms	105:12	When they were few in number, of little account, and sojourners in it,
Psalms	105:13	wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
Psalms	105:14	he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account,
Psalms	105:15	saying, "Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!"
Psalms	105:16	When he summoned a famine on the land and broke all supply of bread,
Psalms	105:17	he had sent a man ahead of them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave.
Psalms	105:18	His feet were hurt with fetters; his neck was put in a collar of iron;
Psalms	105:19	until what he had said came to pass, the word of the LORD tested him.
Psalms	105:20	The king sent and released him; the ruler of the peoples set him free;
Psalms	105:21	he made him lord of his house and ruler of all his possessions,
Psalms	105:22	to bind his princes at his pleasure and to teach his elders wisdom.
Psalms	105:23	Then Israel came to Egypt; Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
Psalms	105:24	And the LORD made his people very fruitful and made them stronger than their foes.
Psalms	105:25	He turned their hearts to hate his people, to deal craftily with his servants.
Psalms	105:26	He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.
Psalms	105:27	They performed his signs among them and miracles in the land of Ham.
Psalms	105:28	He sent darkness, and made the land dark; they did not rebel against his words.
Psalms	105:29	He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die.
Psalms	105:30	Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings.
Psalms	105:31	He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, and gnats throughout their country.
Psalms	105:32	He gave them hail for rain, and fiery lightning bolts through their land.
Psalms	105:33	He struck down their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
Psalms	105:34	He spoke, and the locusts came, young locusts without number,
Psalms	105:35	which devoured all the vegetation in their land and ate up the fruit of their ground.
Psalms	105:36	He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of all their strength.
Psalms	105:37	Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled.
Psalms	105:38	Egypt was glad when they departed, for dread of them had fallen upon it.
Psalms	105:39	He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light by night.
Psalms	105:40	They asked, and he brought quail, and gave them bread from heaven in abundance.
Psalms	105:41	He opened the rock, and water gushed out; it flowed through the desert like a river.
Psalms	105:42	For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham, his servant.
Psalms	105:43	So he brought his people out with joy, his chosen ones with singing.
Psalms	105:44	And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the fruit of the peoples' toil,
Psalms	105:45	that they might keep his statutes and observe his laws. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	106:1	Praise the LORD! Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalms	106:2	Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD, or declare all his praise?
Psalms	106:3	Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times!
Psalms	106:4	Remember me, O LORD, when you show favor to your people; help me when you save them,
Psalms	106:5	that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
Psalms	106:6	Both we and our fathers have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have done wickedness.
Psalms	106:7	Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works; they did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled by the Sea, at the Red Sea.
Psalms	106:8	Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make known his mighty power.
Psalms	106:9	He rebuked the Red Sea, and it became dry, and he led them through the deep as through a desert.
Psalms	106:10	So he saved them from the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the enemy.
Psalms	106:11	And the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left.
Psalms	106:12	Then they believed his words; they sang his praise.
Psalms	106:13	But they soon forgot his works; they did not wait for his counsel.
Psalms	106:14	But they had a wanton craving in the wilderness, and put God to the test in the desert;
Psalms	106:15	he gave them what they asked, but sent a wasting disease among them.
Psalms	106:16	When men in the camp were jealous of Moses and Aaron, the holy one of the LORD,
Psalms	106:17	the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
Psalms	106:18	Fire also broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
Psalms	106:19	They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped a metal image.
Psalms	106:20	They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass.
Psalms	106:21	They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt,
Psalms	106:22	wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea.
Psalms	106:23	Therefore he said he would destroy them--had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him, to turn away his wrath from destroying them.
Psalms	106:24	Then they despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise.
Psalms	106:25	They murmured in their tents, and did not obey the voice of the LORD.
Psalms	106:26	Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness,
Psalms	106:27	and would make their offspring fall among the nations, scattering them among the lands.
Psalms	106:28	Then they yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead;
Psalms	106:29	they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them.
Psalms	106:30	Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was stayed.
Psalms	106:31	And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation forever.
Psalms	106:32	They angered him at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account,
Psalms	106:33	for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke rashly with his lips.
Psalms	106:34	They did not destroy the peoples, as the LORD commanded them,
Psalms	106:35	but they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did.
Psalms	106:36	They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
Psalms	106:37	They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons;
Psalms	106:38	they poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood.
Psalms	106:39	Thus they became unclean by their acts, and played the whore in their deeds.
Psalms	106:40	Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his heritage;
Psalms	106:41	he gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them.
Psalms	106:42	Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power.
Psalms	106:43	Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity.
Psalms	106:44	Nevertheless, he looked upon their distress, when he heard their cry.
Psalms	106:45	For their sake he remembered his covenant, and relented according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
Psalms	106:46	He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive.
Psalms	106:47	Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise.
Psalms	106:48	Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, "Amen!" Praise the LORD!
Psalms	107:1	Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalms	107:2	Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble
Psalms	107:3	and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
Psalms	107:4	Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in;
Psalms	107:5	hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them.
Psalms	107:6	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalms	107:7	He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in.
Psalms	107:8	Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psalms	107:9	For he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things.
Psalms	107:10	Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons,
Psalms	107:11	for they had rebelled against the words of God, and spurned the counsel of the Most High.
Psalms	107:12	So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor; they fell down, with none to help.
Psalms	107:13	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalms	107:14	He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and burst their bonds apart.
Psalms	107:15	Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psalms	107:16	For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron.
Psalms	107:17	Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction;
Psalms	107:18	they loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death.
Psalms	107:19	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalms	107:20	He sent out his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction.
Psalms	107:21	Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psalms	107:22	And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell of his deeds in songs of joy!
Psalms	107:23	Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters;
Psalms	107:24	they saw the deeds of the LORD, his wondrous works in the deep.
Psalms	107:25	For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea.
Psalms	107:26	They mounted up to heaven; they went down to the depths; their courage melted away in their evil plight;
Psalms	107:27	they reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wits' end.
Psalms	107:28	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalms	107:29	He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed.
Psalms	107:30	Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven.
Psalms	107:31	Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men!
Psalms	107:32	Let them extol him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
Psalms	107:33	He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground,
Psalms	107:34	a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the evil of its inhabitants.
Psalms	107:35	He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water.
Psalms	107:36	And there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in;
Psalms	107:37	they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield.
Psalms	107:38	By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish.
Psalms	107:39	When they are diminished and brought low through oppression, evil, and sorrow,
Psalms	107:40	he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless wastes;
Psalms	107:41	but he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks.
Psalms	107:42	The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth.
Psalms	107:43	Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psalms	108:1	My heart is steadfast, O God! I will sing and make melody with all my being!
Psalms	108:2	Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psalms	108:3	I will give thanks to you, O LORD, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psalms	108:4	For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.
Psalms	108:5	Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalms	108:6	That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer me!
Psalms	108:7	God has promised in his holiness: "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Valley of Succoth.
Psalms	108:8	Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter.
Psalms	108:9	Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."
Psalms	108:10	Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psalms	108:11	Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies.
Psalms	108:12	Oh grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psalms	108:13	With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.
Psalms	109:1	Be not silent, O God of my praise!
Psalms	109:2	For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues.
Psalms	109:3	They encircle me with words of hate, and attack me without cause.
Psalms	109:4	In return for my love they accuse me, but I give myself to prayer.
Psalms	109:5	So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
Psalms	109:6	Appoint a wicked man against him; let an accuser stand at his right hand.
Psalms	109:7	When he is tried, let him come forth guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin!
Psalms	109:8	May his days be few; may another take his office!
Psalms	109:9	May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow!
Psalms	109:10	May his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit!
Psalms	109:11	May the creditor seize all that he has; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil!
Psalms	109:12	Let there be none to extend kindness to him, nor any to pity his fatherless children!
Psalms	109:13	May his posterity be cut off; may his name be blotted out in the second generation!
Psalms	109:14	May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out!
Psalms	109:15	Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth!
Psalms	109:16	For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the poor and needy and the brokenhearted, to put them to death.
Psalms	109:17	He loved to curse; let curses come upon him! He did not delight in blessing; may it be far from him!
Psalms	109:18	He clothed himself with cursing as his coat; may it soak into his body like water, like oil into his bones!
Psalms	109:19	May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day!
Psalms	109:20	May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life!
Psalms	109:21	But you, O GOD my Lord, deal on my behalf for your name's sake; because your steadfast love is good, deliver me!
Psalms	109:22	For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me.
Psalms	109:23	I am gone like a shadow at evening; I am shaken off like a locust.
Psalms	109:24	My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt, with no fat.
Psalms	109:25	I am an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they wag their heads.
Psalms	109:26	Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love!
Psalms	109:27	Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it!
Psalms	109:28	Let them curse, but you will bless! They arise and are put to shame, but your servant will be glad!
Psalms	109:29	May my accusers be clothed with dishonor; may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak!
Psalms	109:30	With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng.
Psalms	109:31	For he stands at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who condemn his soul to death.
Psalms	110:1	The LORD says to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool."
Psalms	110:2	The LORD sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies!
Psalms	110:3	Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power, in holy garments; from the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours.
Psalms	110:4	The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind, "You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek."
Psalms	110:5	The Lord is at your right hand; he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath.
Psalms	110:6	He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses; he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth.
Psalms	110:7	He will drink from the brook by the way; therefore he will lift up his head.
Psalms	111:1	Praise the LORD! I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart, in the company of the upright, in the congregation.
Psalms	111:2	Great are the works of the LORD, studied by all who delight in them.
Psalms	111:3	Full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever.
Psalms	111:4	He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the LORD is gracious and merciful.
Psalms	111:5	He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever.
Psalms	111:6	He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the inheritance of the nations.
Psalms	111:7	The works of his hands are faithful and just; all his precepts are trustworthy;
Psalms	111:8	they are established forever and ever, to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness.
Psalms	111:9	He sent redemption to his people; he has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name!
Psalms	111:10	The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; all those who practice it have a good understanding. His praise endures forever!
Psalms	112:1	Praise the LORD! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD, who greatly delights in his commandments!
Psalms	112:2	His offspring will be mighty in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed.
Psalms	112:3	Wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever.
Psalms	112:4	Light dawns in the darkness for the upright; he is gracious, merciful, and righteous.
Psalms	112:5	It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice.
Psalms	112:6	For the righteous will never be moved; he will be remembered forever.
Psalms	112:7	He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the LORD.
Psalms	112:8	His heart is steady; he will not be afraid, until he looks in triumph on his adversaries.
Psalms	112:9	He has distributed freely; he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever; his horn is exalted in honor.
Psalms	112:10	The wicked man sees it and is angry; he gnashes his teeth and melts away; the desire of the wicked will perish!
Psalms	113:1	Praise the LORD! Praise, O servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD!
Psalms	113:2	Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and forevermore!
Psalms	113:3	From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the LORD is to be praised!
Psalms	113:4	The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens!
Psalms	113:5	Who is like the LORD our God, who is seated on high,
Psalms	113:6	who looks far down on the heavens and the earth?
Psalms	113:7	He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap,
Psalms	113:8	to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people.
Psalms	113:9	He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	114:1	When Israel went out from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language,
Psalms	114:2	Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
Psalms	114:3	The sea looked and fled; Jordan turned back.
Psalms	114:4	The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs.
Psalms	114:5	What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?
Psalms	114:6	O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?
Psalms	114:7	Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
Psalms	114:8	who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water.
Psalms	115:1	Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness!
Psalms	115:2	Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"
Psalms	115:3	Our God is in the heavens; he does all that he pleases.
Psalms	115:4	Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
Psalms	115:5	They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see.
Psalms	115:6	They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell.
Psalms	115:7	They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat.
Psalms	115:8	Those who make them become like them; so do all who trust in them.
Psalms	115:9	O Israel, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psalms	115:10	O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psalms	115:11	You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psalms	115:12	The LORD has remembered us; he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron;
Psalms	115:13	he will bless those who fear the LORD, both the small and the great.
Psalms	115:14	May the LORD give you increase, you and your children!
Psalms	115:15	May you be blessed by the LORD, who made heaven and earth!
Psalms	115:16	The heavens are the LORD's heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man.
Psalms	115:17	The dead do not praise the LORD, nor do any who go down into silence.
Psalms	115:18	But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and forevermore. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	116:1	I love the LORD, because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy.
Psalms	116:2	Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
Psalms	116:3	The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and anguish.
Psalms	116:4	Then I called on the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I pray, deliver my soul!"
Psalms	116:5	Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; our God is merciful.
Psalms	116:6	The LORD preserves the simple; when I was brought low, he saved me.
Psalms	116:7	Return, O my soul, to your rest; for the LORD has dealt bountifully with you.
Psalms	116:8	For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling;
Psalms	116:9	I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
Psalms	116:10	I believed, even when I spoke, "I am greatly afflicted";
Psalms	116:11	I said in my alarm, "All mankind are liars."
Psalms	116:12	What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me?
Psalms	116:13	I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD,
Psalms	116:14	I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people.
Psalms	116:15	Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
Psalms	116:16	O LORD, I am your servant; I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds.
Psalms	116:17	I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD.
Psalms	116:18	I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people,
Psalms	116:19	in the courts of the house of the LORD, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	117:1	Praise the LORD, all nations! Extol him, all peoples!
Psalms	117:2	For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the LORD endures forever. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	118:1	Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalms	118:2	Let Israel say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psalms	118:3	Let the house of Aaron say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psalms	118:4	Let those who fear the LORD say, "His steadfast love endures forever."
Psalms	118:5	Out of my distress I called on the LORD; the LORD answered me and set me free.
Psalms	118:6	The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Psalms	118:7	The LORD is on my side as my helper; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me.
Psalms	118:8	It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man.
Psalms	118:9	It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes.
Psalms	118:10	All nations surrounded me; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalms	118:11	They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalms	118:12	They surrounded me like bees; they went out like a fire among thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalms	118:13	I was pushed hard, so that I was falling, but the LORD helped me.
Psalms	118:14	The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.
Psalms	118:15	Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous: "The right hand of the LORD does valiantly,
Psalms	118:16	the right hand of the LORD exalts, the right hand of the LORD does valiantly!"
Psalms	118:17	I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the LORD.
Psalms	118:18	The LORD has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
Psalms	118:19	Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD.
Psalms	118:20	This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
Psalms	118:21	I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation.
Psalms	118:22	The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
Psalms	118:23	This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
Psalms	118:24	This is the day that the LORD has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.
Psalms	118:25	Save us, we pray, O LORD! O LORD, we pray, give us success!
Psalms	118:26	Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD! We bless you from the house of the LORD.
Psalms	118:27	The LORD is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords, up to the horns of the altar!
Psalms	118:28	You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you.
Psalms	118:29	Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalms	119:1	Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the LORD!
Psalms	119:2	Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart,
Psalms	119:3	who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways!
Psalms	119:4	You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently.
Psalms	119:5	Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes!
Psalms	119:6	Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments.
Psalms	119:7	I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous rules.
Psalms	119:8	I will keep your statutes; do not utterly forsake me!Beth
Psalms	119:9	How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word.
Psalms	119:10	With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments!
Psalms	119:11	I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Psalms	119:12	Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes!
Psalms	119:13	With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth.
Psalms	119:14	In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches.
Psalms	119:15	I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways.
Psalms	119:16	I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.Gimel
Psalms	119:17	Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word.
Psalms	119:18	Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
Psalms	119:19	I am a sojourner on the earth; hide not your commandments from me!
Psalms	119:20	My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times.
Psalms	119:21	You rebuke the insolent, accursed ones, who wander from your commandments.
Psalms	119:22	Take away from me scorn and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies.
Psalms	119:23	Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statutes.
Psalms	119:24	Your testimonies are my delight; they are my counselors.Daleth
Psalms	119:25	My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to your word!
Psalms	119:26	When I told of my ways, you answered me; teach me your statutes!
Psalms	119:27	Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works.
Psalms	119:28	My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word!
Psalms	119:29	Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law!
Psalms	119:30	I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me.
Psalms	119:31	I cling to your testimonies, O LORD; let me not be put to shame!
Psalms	119:32	I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart! He
Psalms	119:33	Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes; and I will keep it to the end.
Psalms	119:34	Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.
Psalms	119:35	Lead me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it.
Psalms	119:36	Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to selfish gain!
Psalms	119:37	Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; and give me life in your ways.
Psalms	119:38	Confirm to your servant your promise, that you may be feared.
Psalms	119:39	Turn away the reproach that I dread, for your rules are good.
Psalms	119:40	Behold, I long for your precepts; in your righteousness give me life!Waw
Psalms	119:41	Let your steadfast love come to me, O LORD, your salvation according to your promise;
Psalms	119:42	then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word.
Psalms	119:43	And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules.
Psalms	119:44	I will keep your law continually, forever and ever,
Psalms	119:45	and I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts.
Psalms	119:46	I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame,
Psalms	119:47	for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love.
Psalms	119:48	I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.Zayin
Psalms	119:49	Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope.
Psalms	119:50	This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life.
Psalms	119:51	The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law.
Psalms	119:52	When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O LORD.
Psalms	119:53	Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, who forsake your law.
Psalms	119:54	Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning.
Psalms	119:55	I remember your name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law.
Psalms	119:56	This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts.Heth
Psalms	119:57	The LORD is my portion; I promise to keep your words.
Psalms	119:58	I entreat your favor with all my heart; be gracious to me according to your promise.
Psalms	119:59	When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies;
Psalms	119:60	I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments.
Psalms	119:61	Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law.
Psalms	119:62	At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules.
Psalms	119:63	I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts.
Psalms	119:64	The earth, O LORD, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes!Teth
Psalms	119:65	You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Psalms	119:66	Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
Psalms	119:67	Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word.
Psalms	119:68	You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
Psalms	119:69	The insolent smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts;
Psalms	119:70	their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I delight in your law.
Psalms	119:71	It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.
Psalms	119:72	The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces.Yodh
Psalms	119:73	Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments.
Psalms	119:74	Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word.
Psalms	119:75	I know, O LORD, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Psalms	119:76	Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant.
Psalms	119:77	Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.
Psalms	119:78	Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood; as for me, I will meditate on your precepts.
Psalms	119:79	Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies.
Psalms	119:80	May my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame!Kaph
Psalms	119:81	My soul longs for your salvation; I hope in your word.
Psalms	119:82	My eyes long for your promise; I ask, "When will you comfort me?"
Psalms	119:83	For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes.
Psalms	119:84	How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me?
Psalms	119:85	The insolent have dug pitfalls for me; they do not live according to your law.
Psalms	119:86	All your commandments are sure; they persecute me with falsehood; help me!
Psalms	119:87	They have almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
Psalms	119:88	In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth.Lamedh
Psalms	119:89	Forever, O LORD, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens.
Psalms	119:90	Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established the earth, and it stands fast.
Psalms	119:91	By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants.
Psalms	119:92	If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
Psalms	119:93	I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life.
Psalms	119:94	I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts.
Psalms	119:95	The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your testimonies.
Psalms	119:96	I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad.Mem
Psalms	119:97	Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all the day.
Psalms	119:98	Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me.
Psalms	119:99	I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
Psalms	119:100	I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts.
Psalms	119:101	I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word.
Psalms	119:102	I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me.
Psalms	119:103	How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Psalms	119:104	Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.Nun
Psalms	119:105	Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
Psalms	119:106	I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to keep your righteous rules.
Psalms	119:107	I am severely afflicted; give me life, O LORD, according to your word!
Psalms	119:108	Accept my freewill offerings of praise, O LORD, and teach me your rules.
Psalms	119:109	I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law.
Psalms	119:110	The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts.
Psalms	119:111	Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
Psalms	119:112	I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end. Samekh
Psalms	119:113	I hate the double-minded, but I love your law.
Psalms	119:114	You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.
Psalms	119:115	Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
Psalms	119:116	Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope!
Psalms	119:117	Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually!
Psalms	119:118	You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is in vain.
Psalms	119:119	All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross, therefore I love your testimonies.
Psalms	119:120	My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments.Ayin
Psalms	119:121	I have done what is just and right; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Psalms	119:122	Give your servant a pledge of good; let not the insolent oppress me.
Psalms	119:123	My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise.
Psalms	119:124	Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes.
Psalms	119:125	I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies!
Psalms	119:126	It is time for the LORD to act, for your law has been broken.
Psalms	119:127	Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold.
Psalms	119:128	Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way.Pe
Psalms	119:129	Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.
Psalms	119:130	The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple.
Psalms	119:131	I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commandments.
Psalms	119:132	Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way with those who love your name.
Psalms	119:133	Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me.
Psalms	119:134	Redeem me from man's oppression, that I may keep your precepts.
Psalms	119:135	Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes.
Psalms	119:136	My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law.Tsadhe
Psalms	119:137	Righteous are you, O LORD, and right are your rules.
Psalms	119:138	You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness.
Psalms	119:139	My zeal consumes me, because my foes forget your words.
Psalms	119:140	Your promise is well tried, and your servant loves it.
Psalms	119:141	I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
Psalms	119:142	Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true.
Psalms	119:143	Trouble and anguish have found me out, but your commandments are my delight.
Psalms	119:144	Your testimonies are righteous forever; give me understanding that I may live.Qoph
Psalms	119:145	With my whole heart I cry; answer me, O LORD! I will keep your statutes.
Psalms	119:146	I call to you; save me, that I may observe your testimonies.
Psalms	119:147	I rise before dawn and cry for help; I hope in your words.
Psalms	119:148	My eyes are awake before the watches of the night, that I may meditate on your promise.
Psalms	119:149	Hear my voice according to your steadfast love; O LORD, according to your justice give me life.
Psalms	119:150	They draw near who persecute me with evil purpose; they are far from your law.
Psalms	119:151	But you are near, O LORD, and all your commandments are true.
Psalms	119:152	Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever.Resh
Psalms	119:153	Look on my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget your law.
Psalms	119:154	Plead my cause and redeem me; give me life according to your promise!
Psalms	119:155	Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes.
Psalms	119:156	Great is your mercy, O LORD; give me life according to your rules.
Psalms	119:157	Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, but I do not swerve from your testimonies.
Psalms	119:158	I look at the faithless with disgust, because they do not keep your commands.
Psalms	119:159	Consider how I love your precepts! Give me life according to your steadfast love.
Psalms	119:160	The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever.Sin and Shin
Psalms	119:161	Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words.
Psalms	119:162	I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil.
Psalms	119:163	I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.
Psalms	119:164	Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules.
Psalms	119:165	Great peace have those who love your law; nothing can make them stumble.
Psalms	119:166	I hope for your salvation, O LORD, and I do your commandments.
Psalms	119:167	My soul keeps your testimonies; I love them exceedingly.
Psalms	119:168	I keep your precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before you.Taw
Psalms	119:169	Let my cry come before you, O LORD; give me understanding according to your word!
Psalms	119:170	Let my plea come before you; deliver me according to your word.
Psalms	119:171	My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes.
Psalms	119:172	My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right.
Psalms	119:173	Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
Psalms	119:174	I long for your salvation, O LORD, and your law is my delight.
Psalms	119:175	Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me.
Psalms	119:176	I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments.
Psalms	120:1	In my distress I called to the LORD, and he answered me.
Psalms	120:2	Deliver me, O LORD, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.
Psalms	120:3	What shall be given to you, and what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue?
Psalms	120:4	A warrior's sharp arrows, with glowing coals of the broom tree!
Psalms	120:5	Woe to me, that I sojourn in Meshech, that I dwell among the tents of Kedar!
Psalms	120:6	Too long have I had my dwelling among those who hate peace.
Psalms	120:7	I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war!
Psalms	121:1	I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come?
Psalms	121:2	My help comes from the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psalms	121:3	He will not let your foot be moved; he who keeps you will not slumber.
Psalms	121:4	Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.
Psalms	121:5	The LORD is your keeper; the LORD is your shade on your right hand.
Psalms	121:6	The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night.
Psalms	121:7	The LORD will keep you from all evil; he will keep your life.
Psalms	121:8	The LORD will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalms	122:1	I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go to the house of the LORD!"
Psalms	122:2	Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem!
Psalms	122:3	Jerusalem--built as a city that is bound firmly together,
Psalms	122:4	to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, as was decreed for Israel, to give thanks to the name of the LORD.
Psalms	122:5	There thrones for judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David.
Psalms	122:6	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! "May they be secure who love you!
Psalms	122:7	Peace be within your walls and security within your towers!"
Psalms	122:8	For my brothers and companions' sake I will say, "Peace be within you!"
Psalms	122:9	For the sake of the house of the LORD our God, I will seek your good.
Psalms	123:1	To you I lift up my eyes, O you who are enthroned in the heavens!
Psalms	123:2	Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maidservant to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the LORD our God, till he has mercy upon us.
Psalms	123:3	Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us, for we have had more than enough of contempt.
Psalms	123:4	Our soul has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease, of the contempt of the proud.
Psalms	124:1	If it had not been the LORD who was on our side--let Israel now say--
Psalms	124:2	if it had not been the LORD who was on our side when people rose up against us,
Psalms	124:3	then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their anger was kindled against us;
Psalms	124:4	then the flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us;
Psalms	124:5	then over us would have gone the raging waters.
Psalms	124:6	Blessed be the LORD, who has not given us as prey to their teeth!
Psalms	124:7	We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have escaped!
Psalms	124:8	Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psalms	125:1	Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever.
Psalms	125:2	As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the LORD surrounds his people, from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalms	125:3	For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest on the land allotted to the righteous, lest the righteous stretch out their hands to do wrong.
Psalms	125:4	Do good, O LORD, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in their hearts!
Psalms	125:5	But those who turn aside to their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers! Peace be upon Israel!
Psalms	126:1	When the LORD restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream.
Psalms	126:2	Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the nations, "The LORD has done great things for them."
Psalms	126:3	The LORD has done great things for us; we are glad.
Psalms	126:4	Restore our fortunes, O LORD, like streams in the Negeb!
Psalms	126:5	Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy!
Psalms	126:6	He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him.
Psalms	127:1	Unless the LORD builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.
Psalms	127:2	It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.
Psalms	127:3	Behold, children are a heritage from the LORD, the fruit of the womb a reward.
Psalms	127:4	Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one's youth.
Psalms	127:5	Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.
Psalms	128:1	Blessed is everyone who fears the LORD, who walks in his ways!
Psalms	128:2	You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you.
Psalms	128:3	Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around your table.
Psalms	128:4	Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD.
Psalms	128:5	The LORD bless you from Zion! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life!
Psalms	128:6	May you see your children's children! Peace be upon Israel!
Psalms	129:1	"Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth"--let Israel now say--
Psalms	129:2	"Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me.
Psalms	129:3	The plowers plowed upon my back; they made long their furrows."
Psalms	129:4	The LORD is righteous; he has cut the cords of the wicked.
Psalms	129:5	May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward!
Psalms	129:6	Let them be like the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up,
Psalms	129:7	with which the reaper does not fill his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms,
Psalms	129:8	nor do those who pass by say, "The blessing of the LORD be upon you! We bless you in the name of the LORD!"
Psalms	130:1	Out of the depths I cry to you, O LORD!
Psalms	130:2	O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy!
Psalms	130:3	If you, O LORD, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand?
Psalms	130:4	But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared.
Psalms	130:5	I wait for the LORD, my soul waits, and in his word I hope;
Psalms	130:6	my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning.
Psalms	130:7	O Israel, hope in the LORD! For with the LORD there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption.
Psalms	130:8	And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
Psalms	131:1	O LORD, my heart is not lifted up; my eyes are not raised too high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me.
Psalms	131:2	But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my soul within me.
Psalms	131:3	O Israel, hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalms	132:1	Remember, O LORD, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured,
Psalms	132:2	how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob,
Psalms	132:3	"I will not enter my house or get into my bed,
Psalms	132:4	I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids,
Psalms	132:5	until I find a place for the LORD, a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob."
Psalms	132:6	Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; we found it in the fields of Jaar.
Psalms	132:7	"Let us go to his dwelling place; let us worship at his footstool!"
Psalms	132:8	Arise, O LORD, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might.
Psalms	132:9	Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy.
Psalms	132:10	For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed one.
Psalms	132:11	The LORD swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back: "One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne.
Psalms	132:12	If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne."
Psalms	132:13	For the LORD has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his dwelling place:
Psalms	132:14	"This is my resting place forever; here I will dwell, for I have desired it.
Psalms	132:15	I will abundantly bless her provisions; I will satisfy her poor with bread.
Psalms	132:16	Her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy.
Psalms	132:17	There I will make a horn to sprout for David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed.
Psalms	132:18	His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine."
Psalms	133:1	Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity!
Psalms	133:2	It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes!
Psalms	133:3	It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion! For there the LORD has commanded the blessing, life forevermore.
Psalms	134:1	Come, bless the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, who stand by night in the house of the LORD!
Psalms	134:2	Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the LORD!
Psalms	134:3	May the LORD bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth!
Psalms	135:1	Praise the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD, give praise, O servants of the LORD,
Psalms	135:2	who stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God!
Psalms	135:3	Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant!
Psalms	135:4	For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his own possession.
Psalms	135:5	For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
Psalms	135:6	Whatever the LORD pleases, he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps.
Psalms	135:7	He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Psalms	135:8	He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and of beast;
Psalms	135:9	who in your midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants;
Psalms	135:10	who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings,
Psalms	135:11	Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,
Psalms	135:12	and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel.
Psalms	135:13	Your name, O LORD, endures forever, your renown, O LORD, throughout all ages.
Psalms	135:14	For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants.
Psalms	135:15	The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
Psalms	135:16	They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do not see;
Psalms	135:17	they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths.
Psalms	135:18	Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them!
Psalms	135:19	O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
Psalms	135:20	O house of Levi, bless the LORD! You who fear the LORD, bless the LORD!
Psalms	135:21	Blessed be the LORD from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the LORD!
Psalms	136:1	Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalms	136:2	Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalms	136:3	Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:4	to him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:5	to him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:6	to him who spread out the earth above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:7	to him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:8	the sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:9	the moon and stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:10	to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:11	and brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:12	with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:13	to him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:14	and made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:15	but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:16	to him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:17	to him who struck down great kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:18	and killed mighty kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:19	Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:20	and Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:21	and gave their land as a heritage, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:22	a heritage to Israel his servant, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalms	136:23	It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:24	and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalms	136:25	he who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalms	136:26	Give thanks to the God of heaven, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalms	137:1	By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down and wept, when we remembered Zion.
Psalms	137:2	On the willows there we hung up our lyres.
Psalms	137:3	For there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors, mirth, saying, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion!"
Psalms	137:4	How shall we sing the LORD's song in a foreign land?
Psalms	137:5	If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill!
Psalms	137:6	Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth, if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy!
Psalms	137:7	Remember, O LORD, against the Edomites the day of Jerusalem, how they said, "Lay it bare, lay it bare, down to its foundations!"
Psalms	137:8	O daughter of Babylon, doomed to be destroyed, blessed shall he be who repays you with what you have done to us!
Psalms	137:9	Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock!
Psalms	138:1	I give you thanks, O LORD, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing your praise;
Psalms	138:2	I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word.
Psalms	138:3	On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased.
Psalms	138:4	All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O LORD, for they have heard the words of your mouth,
Psalms	138:5	and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, for great is the glory of the LORD.
Psalms	138:6	For though the LORD is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar.
Psalms	138:7	Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me.
Psalms	138:8	The LORD will fulfill his purpose for me; your steadfast love, O LORD, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands.
Psalms	139:1	O LORD, you have searched me and known me!
Psalms	139:2	You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar.
Psalms	139:3	You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways.
Psalms	139:4	Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O LORD, you know it altogether.
Psalms	139:5	You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.
Psalms	139:6	Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high; I cannot attain it.
Psalms	139:7	Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence?
Psalms	139:8	If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there!
Psalms	139:9	If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,
Psalms	139:10	even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.
Psalms	139:11	If I say, "Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,"
Psalms	139:12	even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you.
Psalms	139:13	For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb.
Psalms	139:14	I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.
Psalms	139:15	My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
Psalms	139:16	Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them.
Psalms	139:17	How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
Psalms	139:18	If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you.
Psalms	139:19	Oh that you would slay the wicked, O God! O men of blood, depart from me!
Psalms	139:20	They speak against you with malicious intent; your enemies take your name in vain!
Psalms	139:21	Do I not hate those who hate you, O LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you?
Psalms	139:22	I hate them with complete hatred; I count them my enemies.
Psalms	139:23	Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts!
Psalms	139:24	And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!
Psalms	140:1	Deliver me, O LORD, from evil men; preserve me from violent men,
Psalms	140:2	who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually.
Psalms	140:3	They make their tongue sharp as a serpent's, and under their lips is the venom of asps. Selah
Psalms	140:4	Guard me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from violent men, who have planned to trip up my feet.
Psalms	140:5	The arrogant have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net; beside the way they have set snares for me. Selah
Psalms	140:6	I say to the LORD, You are my God; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O LORD!
Psalms	140:7	O LORD, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
Psalms	140:8	Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; do not further their evil plot or they will be exalted! Selah
Psalms	140:9	As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them!
Psalms	140:10	Let burning coals fall upon them! Let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise!
Psalms	140:11	Let not the slanderer be established in the land; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily!
Psalms	140:12	I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will execute justice for the needy.
Psalms	140:13	Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name; the upright shall dwell in your presence.
Psalms	141:1	O LORD, I call upon you; hasten to me! Give ear to my voice when I call to you!
Psalms	141:2	Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice!
Psalms	141:3	Set a guard, O LORD, over my mouth; keep watch over the door of my lips!
Psalms	141:4	Do not let my heart incline to any evil, to busy myself with wicked deeds in company with men who work iniquity, and let me not eat of their delicacies!
Psalms	141:5	Let a righteous man strike me--it is a kindness; let him rebuke me--it is oil for my head; let my head not refuse it. Yet my prayer is continually against their evil deeds.
Psalms	141:6	When their judges are thrown over the cliff, then they shall hear my words, for they are pleasant.
Psalms	141:7	As when one plows and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones be scattered at the mouth of Sheol.
Psalms	141:8	But my eyes are toward you, O GOD, my Lord; in you I seek refuge; leave me not defenseless!
Psalms	141:9	Keep me from the trap that they have laid for me and from the snares of evildoers!
Psalms	141:10	Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by safely.
Psalms	142:1	With my voice I cry out to the LORD; with my voice I plead for mercy to the LORD.
Psalms	142:2	I pour out my complaint before him; I tell my trouble before him.
Psalms	142:3	When my spirit faints within me, you know my way! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap for me.
Psalms	142:4	Look to the right and see: there is none who takes notice of me; no refuge remains to me; no one cares for my soul.
Psalms	142:5	I cry to you, O LORD; I say, "You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living."
Psalms	142:6	Attend to my cry, for I am brought very low! Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are too strong for me!
Psalms	142:7	Bring me out of prison, that I may give thanks to your name! The righteous will surround me, for you will deal bountifully with me.
Psalms	143:1	Hear my prayer, O LORD; give ear to my pleas for mercy! In your faithfulness answer me, in your righteousness!
Psalms	143:2	Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you.
Psalms	143:3	For the enemy has pursued my soul; he has crushed my life to the ground; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead.
Psalms	143:4	Therefore my spirit faints within me; my heart within me is appalled.
Psalms	143:5	I remember the days of old; I meditate on all that you have done; I ponder the work of your hands.
Psalms	143:6	I stretch out my hands to you; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Selah
Psalms	143:7	Answer me quickly, O LORD! My spirit fails! Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit.
Psalms	143:8	Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul.
Psalms	143:9	Deliver me from my enemies, O LORD! I have fled to you for refuge!
Psalms	143:10	Teach me to do your will, for you are my God! Let your good Spirit lead me on level ground!
Psalms	143:11	For your name's sake, O LORD, preserve my life! In your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble!
Psalms	143:12	And in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies, and you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul, for I am your servant.
Psalms	144:1	Blessed be the LORD, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle;
Psalms	144:2	he is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me.
Psalms	144:3	O LORD, what is man that you regard him, or the son of man that you think of him?
Psalms	144:4	Man is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow.
Psalms	144:5	Bow your heavens, O LORD, and come down! Touch the mountains so that they smoke!
Psalms	144:6	Flash forth the lightning and scatter them; send out your arrows and rout them!
Psalms	144:7	Stretch out your hand from on high; rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand of foreigners,
Psalms	144:8	whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psalms	144:9	I will sing a new song to you, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you,
Psalms	144:10	who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword.
Psalms	144:11	Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psalms	144:12	May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace;
Psalms	144:13	may our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce; may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields;
Psalms	144:14	may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing; may there be no cry of distress in our streets!
Psalms	144:15	Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall! Blessed are the people whose God is the LORD!
Psalms	145:1	I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever.
Psalms	145:2	Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever.
Psalms	145:3	Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable.
Psalms	145:4	One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts.
Psalms	145:5	On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate.
Psalms	145:6	They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness.
Psalms	145:7	They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
Psalms	145:8	The LORD is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psalms	145:9	The LORD is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made.
Psalms	145:10	All your works shall give thanks to you, O LORD, and all your saints shall bless you!
Psalms	145:11	They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power,
Psalms	145:12	to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your kingdom.
Psalms	145:13	Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations.[The LORD is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works.]
Psalms	145:14	The LORD upholds all who are falling and raises up all who are bowed down.
Psalms	145:15	The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season.
Psalms	145:16	You open your hand; you satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Psalms	145:17	The LORD is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works.
Psalms	145:18	The LORD is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
Psalms	145:19	He fulfills the desire of those who fear him; he also hears their cry and saves them.
Psalms	145:20	The LORD preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
Psalms	145:21	My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.
Psalms	146:1	Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD, O my soul!
Psalms	146:2	I will praise the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being.
Psalms	146:3	Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation.
Psalms	146:4	When his breath departs he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.
Psalms	146:5	Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the LORD his God,
Psalms	146:6	who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever;
Psalms	146:7	who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry.The LORD sets the prisoners free;
Psalms	146:8	the LORD opens the eyes of the blind. The LORD lifts up those who are bowed down; the LORD loves the righteous.
Psalms	146:9	The LORD watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin.
Psalms	146:10	The LORD will reign forever, your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	147:1	Praise the LORD! For it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting.
Psalms	147:2	The LORD builds up Jerusalem; he gathers the outcasts of Israel.
Psalms	147:3	He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.
Psalms	147:4	He determines the number of the stars; he gives to all of them their names.
Psalms	147:5	Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.
Psalms	147:6	The LORD lifts up the humble; he casts the wicked to the ground.
Psalms	147:7	Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; make melody to our God on the lyre!
Psalms	147:8	He covers the heavens with clouds; he prepares rain for the earth; he makes grass grow on the hills.
Psalms	147:9	He gives to the beasts their food, and to the young ravens that cry.
Psalms	147:10	His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man,
Psalms	147:11	but the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.
Psalms	147:12	Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!
Psalms	147:13	For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children within you.
Psalms	147:14	He makes peace in your borders; he fills you with the finest of the wheat.
Psalms	147:15	He sends out his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly.
Psalms	147:16	He gives snow like wool; he scatters hoarfrost like ashes.
Psalms	147:17	He hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs; who can stand before his cold?
Psalms	147:18	He sends out his word, and melts them; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow.
Psalms	147:19	He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and rules to Israel.
Psalms	147:20	He has not dealt thus with any other nation; they do not know his rules. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	148:1	Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens; praise him in the heights!
Psalms	148:2	Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts!
Psalms	148:3	Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars!
Psalms	148:4	Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens!
Psalms	148:5	Let them praise the name of the LORD! For he commanded and they were created.
Psalms	148:6	And he established them forever and ever; he gave a decree, and it shall not pass away.
Psalms	148:7	Praise the LORD from the earth, you great sea creatures and all deeps,
Psalms	148:8	fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind fulfilling his word!
Psalms	148:9	Mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars!
Psalms	148:10	Beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds!
Psalms	148:11	Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth!
Psalms	148:12	Young men and maidens together, old men and children!
Psalms	148:13	Let them praise the name of the LORD, for his name alone is exalted; his majesty is above earth and heaven.
Psalms	148:14	He has raised up a horn for his people, praise for all his saints, for the people of Israel who are near to him. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	149:1	Praise the LORD! Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise in the assembly of the godly!
Psalms	149:2	Let Israel be glad in his Maker; let the children of Zion rejoice in their King!
Psalms	149:3	Let them praise his name with dancing, making melody to him with tambourine and lyre!
Psalms	149:4	For the LORD takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation.
Psalms	149:5	Let the godly exult in glory; let them sing for joy on their beds.
Psalms	149:6	Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands,
Psalms	149:7	to execute vengeance on the nations and punishments on the peoples,
Psalms	149:8	to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron,
Psalms	149:9	to execute on them the judgment written! This is honor for all his godly ones. Praise the LORD!
Psalms	150:1	Praise the LORD! Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heavens!
Psalms	150:2	Praise him for his mighty deeds; praise him according to his excellent greatness!
Psalms	150:3	Praise him with trumpet sound; praise him with lute and harp!
Psalms	150:4	Praise him with tambourine and dance; praise him with strings and pipe!
Psalms	150:5	Praise him with sounding cymbals; praise him with loud clashing cymbals!
Psalms	150:6	Let everything that has breath praise the LORD! Praise the LORD!
