I love my wife.  I love her more than myself.  That has not always been the case.  Whether good or ill: I take much responsibility for her insecurity and pride because of my leadership in our home.  However, knowing her deficiencies I do not expect to see her in heaven: for she will be so close to the throne that Christ's blinding glory will wash away all view of her.
I know my wife is not perfect but I have seen Christ in her: when she suffered through my emotional affair with another woman, when she willingly served people who were bad to her just to be a martyr; as she has been unfailingly loyal to all of us family & friends who do not deserve it.  It is this cherishing love for her, which Yahweh has given me, that is meant to be a picture of the Church.  As I love my wife (which, honestly isn't enough) so Christ loves the Church and gave Hisself for it infinitely more.

These living allegories are dim reflections of the truth.
But we are imagers nonetheless; both in being and doing.
And if there are, as I suspect, as many instantiations of spiritual gifts asBelievers -
then there are at least as many implementations of incorporating believers.
But there are right and wrong ways for us to organize.
There are good and bad practices.
This is what I wish to explore herein.

At first, the word "incorporating" stings a bit.
I am diametrically opposed to the modern church-as-business model of congregating.
I believe it nothing less than high-handed authoritarian religion in modern garb.
Aren't we loyal believers the temple of Yahweh regardless of time or place.
We are simultaneously the living stones of the holy priesthood that make it up.
And we are committed members from the moment of our spiritual birth

Before we dive into anything deeply I feel it necessary to say two things (the fact that I am limited and prideful goes without saying):
1) Nothing I say or write is original...I am just a researcher.
2) You should be Berean: search the Scriptures daily to find out if these things are so...

