God our Paragon

This lesson will focus on God as our paragon.  That is, He is an example for us.  Not only were we saved (according to the scriptures 1Cor 15:1-4), we were made friends of God (John 15) and made one with Him (John 17).

-- This can be expounded to the children by referencing how we tend to change to become like the people we spend time with:
"For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you."
John 13:15

-- it is an intentional effort to become like Him.  We can learn about Him but He really wants us to indwell His character traits throughtout our lives:
"Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
Ephesians 5:1

-- it is difficult to transmit small behaviors.  Jesus had little time on earth and, therefore, made major accomplishments to be our example (ask kiddos what things Jesus did, look them up):
And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God."
Ephesians 5:2

By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
1 John 3:16

-- this transformation is planned in advance.  He has transformed our soul [if we have trusted in Him], is transforming our mind/heart, and will transform our bodies:
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.
2 Corinthians 5:17

Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
Romans 12:2

"But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself."
Philippians 3:20-21

-- ultimately God calls us join in a higher calling of spreading His Word, thus laying down our lives.  This is the mature attitude that comes later after we've become a disciple and been indoctrinally tested:
"Though he slay me, I will hope in him;  yet I will argue my ways to his face."
Job 13:15

-- God will do what God will do.  He has promised to help us in our growth:
"seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you."
Matthew 6:33

