This book is God's testimony of my life.  When it began I was 23 years a Christian; when it finished, NNN years.


The great quality of God’s creation cannot be dismissed, even in its fallen state.  The greatest amazement in the creation is not, however, DNA or the boson but the innate symbology in everything.  From the crimson worm the marriage relation; from the automatic ordering of satellites (at any scale) to music.  Everything points to Christ.

Furthermore, as believers in Jesus Christ, who [being God] redeemed mankind by offering Himself in our place to succumb to the wrath of God, we have the special gift of etymological insight into the nature of reality.  That being the revelation of God to man that we call the Bible.  In John’s Greek it’s Logos.  John also defines it as self-same with Christ Hisself and Wisdom (the first of all created things).
	This is an infinitely deep topic (aren’t they all) but it’s necessary to understand that we do have a source of truth ordained, established, and instantiated by God in written language.  In fact, some believe that the first thing God created was the Hebrew language (the third word in the Bible is AT which is untranslated, the first and last letters of the alphabet, but we’ll get into this more mystical junk later.)
	This book will not attempt to defend the thesis that God Himself protects and distributes His Word through the ages, but we take that as self-evident truth.  We will delve into the most phenomenal, breath-taking literature in all of creation.  Its intricacy and delicacy are awesome but misleading because there is not a single fallible drop of truth in all its writings: which are powerful, predictive, and imminently usable.

That being said; there are three remembrances we must have before beginning any providential intercourse:
1. The Word is infallible
2. We are not [infallible]
3. Galatians 6:6

One: the truth of the Word is without error or contradiction.  What’s more, the historical and personal applicability is faultless.  What’s more, the actual text (down to the spacing and shaping of the letters) is inspired and substantial.

Two: it should go without saying that we spiritually adulterous, mortal creatures with penchant for self-destruction.  That fact is on display daily in the events around us.

Three: “Let the one who is taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches” (ESV).  This is not optional.  Daniel 12:4 says that in the end-times (i.e. NOW) knowledge will increase.  I push this logic to its conclusion that all believers have special insight from the Holy Spirit that is meant to be disseminated.

From here we delve into the symbols and go through the Bible to look at the use of various symbols.  All things point to Christ.  As much as possible we will make links between disparate passaged (especially old and new testaments).  I generally give references only to the chapters because I think verse numbers detract from the textual flow (PSA: they’re not inspired) and we will often be circling a given context. 
