James
	James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,

	To the twelve tribes in the Dispersion:

	Greetings.

Peter 1
	Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ,

	To those who are elect exiles of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:

	May grace and peace be multiplied to you.

Peter 2
	Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,

	To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:

	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.

John 1
	N/A

John 2
	The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:

	Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love.

John 3
	The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth.

	Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul. For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.

Jude
	Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James,

	To those who are called, beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:

	May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.

Romans
	Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ,

	To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
	
Corinthians 1
	Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes,

	To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

Corinthians 2
	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,

	To the church of God that is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

Galatians
	Paul, an apostle—not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead—and all the brothers who are with me,

	To the churches of Galatia:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.

Ephesians
	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God,

	To the saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

Philippians
	Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus,

	To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

Colossians
	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,

	To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father.

Thessalonians 1
	Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy,

	To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:

	Grace to you and peace.

Thessalonians 2
	Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy,

	To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
	
Hebrews
	N/A
	
Timothy 1
	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,

	To Timothy, my true child in the faith:

	Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
	
Timothy 2
	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus,

	To Timothy, my beloved child:

	Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
	
Titus
	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began and at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior;

	To Titus, my true child in a common faith:

	Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.

Philemon
	Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother,

	To Philemon our beloved fellow worker and Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier, and the church in your house:

	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.