This book is God's testimony of my life.  When it began I was 23 years a Christian; it will be finished when does my race :)


The great quality of God’s creation cannot be dismissed, even in its fallen state.  The greatest amazement in the creation is not, however, DNA or the boson but the innate symbology in everything.  From the crimson worm to the marriage relation; from the automatic positioning of satellites (at any scale), to the cardinality of natural processes, to music.  Everything points to Christ.

Furthermore, as believers in Jesus Christ, who [being God] redeemed mankind by offering Himself in our place to come under the wrath of God, we have the special gift of verbal insight into the nature of reality.  This is personified in His Word - which is codified in the Scriptures.  In John 1 [in Greek] it’s Logos.  John also defines it as self-same with Christ Hisself and Wisdom (the first of all created things).
	
This is an infinitely deep topic but it’s necessary to understand that we do have a source of truth ordained, established, and instantiated by God in written language.  In fact the first thing God created was the Word [language] (the third word in the Bible is AT which is untranslated [being a direct-object identifier], the first and last letters of that alphabet.)

We will delve into this phenomenal, breath-taking literature whose intricacy and precision are awesome.  It's seeming delicacy illumines it's divine preservation because there is not a single fallible letter in all its writings: which are powerful, predictive, and imminently usable.

That being said; these are some remembrances we must have before beginning any providential intercourse:
1. Psalm 12:6, Proverb 30:5
2. Romans 3:10, Psalm 14:3, Ps 53:3
3. Acts 17:11
3. Galatians 6:6

One: the truth of the Word is without error or contradiction.  What’s more, the historical and personal applicability is faultless.  What’s more, the actual text (down to the spacing and letters) is inspired and substantial.

Two: it should go without saying that we are spiritually adulterous, mortal creatures with a penchant for self-destruction.  That fact is on display daily in the events around us.

Three: we must "search the Scriptures daily" to prove these things to ourselves.  Only it can be our primary guide.

Four: “Let the one who is taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches” (ESV).  This is not optional.  Daniel 12:4 says that in the end-times (i.e. NOW) knowledge will increase.  I push this to it's logical conclusion that all believers have special insight from the Holy Spirit that are meant to be disseminated.

All things point to Christ and He is Lord of all.
