Song of Solomon	1:1	The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
Song of Solomon	1:2	Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine;
Song of Solomon	1:3	your anointing oils are fragrant; your name is oil poured out; therefore virgins love you.
Song of Solomon	1:4	Draw me after you; let us run. The king has brought me into his chambers. We will exult and rejoice in you; we will extol your love more than wine; rightly do they love you.
Song of Solomon	1:5	I am very dark, but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.
Song of Solomon	1:6	Do not gaze at me because I am dark, because the sun has looked upon me. My mother's sons were angry with me; they made me keeper of the vineyards, but my own vineyard I have not kept!
Song of Solomon	1:7	Tell me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture your flock, where you make it lie down at noon; for why should I be like one who veils herself beside the flocks of your companions?
Song of Solomon	1:8	If you do not know, O most beautiful among women, follow in the tracks of the flock, and pasture your young goats beside the shepherds' tents.
Song of Solomon	1:9	I compare you, my love, to a mare among Pharaoh's chariots.
Song of Solomon	1:10	Your cheeks are lovely with ornaments, your neck with strings of jewels.
Song of Solomon	1:11	We will make for you ornaments of gold, studded with silver.
Song of Solomon	1:12	While the king was on his couch, my nard gave forth its fragrance.
Song of Solomon	1:13	My beloved is to me a sachet of myrrh that lies between my breasts.
Song of Solomon	1:14	My beloved is to me a cluster of henna blossoms in the vineyards of Engedi.
Song of Solomon	1:15	Behold, you are beautiful, my love; behold, you are beautiful; your eyes are doves.
Song of Solomon	1:16	Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, truly delightful. Our couch is green;
Song of Solomon	1:17	the beams of our house are cedar; our rafters are pine.
Song of Solomon	2:1	I am a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys.
Song of Solomon	2:2	As a lily among brambles, so is my love among the young women.
Song of Solomon	2:3	As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the young men. With great delight I sat in his shadow, and his fruit was sweet to my taste,
Song of Solomon	2:4	He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love.
Song of Solomon	2:5	Sustain me with raisins; refresh me with apples, for I am sick with love.
Song of Solomon	2:6	His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me!
Song of Solomon	2:7	I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon	2:8	The voice of my beloved! Behold, he comes, leaping over the mountains, bounding over the hills.
Song of Solomon	2:9	My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing through the windows, looking through the lattice.
Song of Solomon	2:10	My beloved speaks and says to me: "Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away,
Song of Solomon	2:11	for behold, the winter is past; the rain is over and gone.
Song of Solomon	2:12	The flowers appear on the earth, the time of singing has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
Song of Solomon	2:13	The fig tree ripens its figs, and the vines are in blossom; they give forth fragrance. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away.
Song of Solomon	2:14	O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the crannies of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely.
Song of Solomon	2:15	Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes that spoil the vineyards, for our vineyards are in blossom."
Song of Solomon	2:16	My beloved is mine, and I am his; he grazes among the lilies.
Song of Solomon	2:17	Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, turn, my beloved, be like a gazelle or a young stag on cleft mountains.
Song of Solomon	3:1	On my bed by night I sought him whom my soul loves; I sought him, but found him not.
Song of Solomon	3:2	I will rise now and go about the city, in the streets and in the squares; I will seek him whom my soul loves. I sought him, but found him not.
Song of Solomon	3:3	The watchmen found me as they went about in the city. "Have you seen him whom my soul loves?"
Song of Solomon	3:4	Scarcely had I passed them when I found him whom my soul loves. I held him, and would not let him go until I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her who conceived me.
Song of Solomon	3:5	I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon	3:6	What is that coming up from the wilderness like columns of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all the fragrant powders of a merchant?
Song of Solomon	3:7	Behold, it is the litter of Solomon! Around it are sixty mighty men, some of the mighty men of Israel,
Song of Solomon	3:8	all of them wearing swords and expert in war, each with his sword at his thigh, against terror by night.
Song of Solomon	3:9	King Solomon made himself a carriage from the wood of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon	3:10	He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple; its interior was inlaid with love by the daughters of Jerusalem.
Song of Solomon	3:11	Go out, O daughters of Zion, and look upon King Solomon, with the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness of his heart.
Song of Solomon	4:1	Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are doves behind your veil. Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead.
Song of Solomon	4:2	Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and not one among them has lost its young.
Song of Solomon	4:3	Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
Song of Solomon	4:4	Your neck is like the tower of David, built in rows of stone; on it hang a thousand shields, all of them shields of warriors.
Song of Solomon	4:5	Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, that graze among the lilies.
Song of Solomon	4:6	Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, I will go away to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense.
Song of Solomon	4:7	You are altogether beautiful, my love; there is no flaw in you.
Song of Solomon	4:8	Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; come with me from Lebanon. Depart from the peak of Amana, from the peak of Senir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.
Song of Solomon	4:9	You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
Song of Solomon	4:10	How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, and the fragrance of your oils than any spice!
Song of Solomon	4:11	Your lips drip nectar, my bride; honey and milk are under your tongue; the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon	4:12	A garden locked is my sister, my bride, a spring locked, a fountain sealed.
Song of Solomon	4:13	Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates with all choicest fruits, henna with nard,
Song of Solomon	4:14	nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all chief spices--
Song of Solomon	4:15	a garden fountain, a well of living water, and flowing streams from Lebanon.
Song of Solomon	4:16	Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind! Blow upon my garden, let its spices flow. Let my beloved come to his garden, and eat its choicest fruits.
Song of Solomon	5:1	I came to my garden, my sister, my bride, I gathered my myrrh with my spice, I ate my honeycomb with my honey, I drank my wine with my milk. Eat, friends, drink, and be drunk with love!
Song of Solomon	5:2	I slept, but my heart was awake. A sound! My beloved is knocking. "Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my perfect one, for my head is wet with dew, my locks with the drops of the night."
Song of Solomon	5:3	I had put off my garment; how could I put it on? I had bathed my feet; how could I soil them?
Song of Solomon	5:4	My beloved put his hand to the latch, and my heart was thrilled within me.
Song of Solomon	5:5	I arose to open to my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh, my fingers with liquid myrrh, on the handles of the bolt.
Song of Solomon	5:6	I opened to my beloved, but my beloved had turned and gone. My soul failed me when he spoke. I sought him, but found him not; I called him, but he gave no answer.
Song of Solomon	5:7	The watchmen found me as they went about in the city; they beat me, they bruised me, they took away my veil, those watchmen of the walls.
Song of Solomon	5:8	I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him I am sick with love.
Song of Solomon	5:9	What is your beloved more than another beloved, O most beautiful among women? What is your beloved more than another beloved, that you thus adjure us?
Song of Solomon	5:10	My beloved is radiant and ruddy, distinguished among ten thousand.
Song of Solomon	5:11	His head is the finest gold; his locks are wavy, black as a raven.
Song of Solomon	5:12	His eyes are like doves beside streams of water, bathed in milk, sitting beside a full pool.
Song of Solomon	5:13	His cheeks are like beds of spices, mounds of sweet-smelling herbs. His lips are lilies, dripping liquid myrrh.
Song of Solomon	5:14	His arms are rods of gold, set with jewels. His body is polished ivory, bedecked with sapphires.
Song of Solomon	5:15	His legs are alabaster columns, set on bases of gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as the cedars.
Song of Solomon	5:16	His mouth is most sweet, and he is altogether desirable. This is my beloved and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.
Song of Solomon	6:1	Where has your beloved gone, O most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned, that we may seek him with you?
Song of Solomon	6:2	My beloved has gone down to his garden to the beds of spices, to graze in the gardens and to gather lilies.
Song of Solomon	6:3	I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine; he grazes among the lilies.
Song of Solomon	6:4	You are beautiful as Tirzah, my love, lovely as Jerusalem, awesome as an army with banners.
Song of Solomon	6:5	Turn away your eyes from me, for they overwhelm me--Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead.
Song of Solomon	6:6	Your teeth are like a flock of ewes that have come up from the washing; all of them bear twins; not one among them has lost its young.
Song of Solomon	6:7	Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
Song of Solomon	6:8	There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, and virgins without number.
Song of Solomon	6:9	My dove, my perfect one, is the only one, the only one of her mother, pure to her who bore her. The young women saw her and called her blessed; the queens and concubines also, and they praised her.
Song of Solomon	6:10	"Who is this who looks down like the dawn, beautiful as the moon, bright as the sun, awesome as an army with banners?"
Song of Solomon	6:11	I went down to the nut orchard to look at the blossoms of the valley, to see whether the vines had budded, whether the pomegranates were in bloom.
Song of Solomon	6:12	Before I was aware, my desire set me among the chariots of my kinsman, a prince.
Song of Solomon	6:13	Return, return, O Shulammite, return, return, that we may look upon you.Why should you look upon the Shulammite, as upon a dance before two armies?
Song of Solomon	7:1	How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O noble daughter! Your rounded thighs are like jewels, the work of a master hand.
Song of Solomon	7:2	Your navel is a rounded bowl that never lacks mixed wine. Your belly is a heap of wheat, encircled with lilies.
Song of Solomon	7:3	Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.
Song of Solomon	7:4	Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rabbim. Your nose is like a tower of Lebanon, which looks toward Damascus.
Song of Solomon	7:5	Your head crowns you like Carmel, and your flowing locks are like purple; a king is held captive in the tresses.
Song of Solomon	7:6	How beautiful and pleasant you are, O loved one, with all your delights!
Song of Solomon	7:7	Your stature is like a palm tree, and your breasts are like its clusters.
Song of Solomon	7:8	I say I will climb the palm tree and lay hold of its fruit. Oh may your breasts be like clusters of the vine, and the scent of your breath like apples,
Song of Solomon	7:9	and your mouth like the best wine. It goes down smoothly for my beloved, gliding over lips and teeth.
Song of Solomon	7:10	I am my beloved's, and his desire is for me.
Song of Solomon	7:11	Come, my beloved, let us go out into the fields and lodge in the villages;
Song of Solomon	7:12	let us go out early to the vineyards and see whether the vines have budded, whether the grape blossoms have opened and the pomegranates are in bloom. There I will give you my love.
Song of Solomon	7:13	The mandrakes give forth fragrance, and beside our doors are all choice fruits, new as well as old, which I have laid up for you, O my beloved.
Song of Solomon	8:1	Oh that you were like a brother to me who nursed at my mother's breasts! If I found you outside, I would kiss you, and none would despise me.
Song of Solomon	8:2	I would lead you and bring you into the house of my mother--she who used to teach me. I would give you spiced wine to drink, the juice of my pomegranate.
Song of Solomon	8:3	His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me!
Song of Solomon	8:4	I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon	8:5	Who is that coming up from the wilderness, leaning on her beloved?Under the apple tree I awakened you. There your mother was in labor with you; there she who bore you was in labor.
Song of Solomon	8:6	Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the LORD.
Song of Solomon	8:7	Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, he would be utterly despised.
Song of Solomon	8:8	We have a little sister, and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day when she is spoken for?
Song of Solomon	8:9	If she is a wall, we will build on her a battlement of silver, but if she is a door, we will enclose her with boards of cedar.
Song of Solomon	8:10	I was a wall, and my breasts were like towers; then I was in his eyes as one who finds peace.
Song of Solomon	8:11	Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon; he let out the vineyard to keepers; each one was to bring for its fruit a thousand pieces of silver.
Song of Solomon	8:12	My vineyard, my very own, is before me; you, O Solomon, may have the thousand, and the keepers of the fruit two hundred.
Song of Solomon	8:13	O you who dwell in the gardens, with companions listening for your voice; let me hear it.
Song of Solomon	8:14	Make haste, my beloved, and be like a gazelle or a young stag on the mountains of spices.
Isaiah	1:1	The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Isaiah	1:2	Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the LORD has spoken: "Children have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me.
Isaiah	1:3	The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know, my people do not understand."
Isaiah	1:4	Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They have forsaken the LORD, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged.
Isaiah	1:5	Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
Isaiah	1:6	From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw wounds; they are not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil.
Isaiah	1:7	Your country lies desolate; your cities are burned with fire; in your very presence foreigners devour your land; it is desolate, as overthrown by foreigners.
Isaiah	1:8	And the daughter of Zion is left like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged city.
Isaiah	1:9	If the LORD of hosts had not left us a few survivors, we should have been like Sodom, and become like Gomorrah.
Isaiah	1:10	Hear the word of the LORD, you rulers of Sodom! Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of Gomorrah!
Isaiah	1:11	"What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the LORD; I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats.
Isaiah	1:12	"When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts?
Isaiah	1:13	Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations--I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly.
Isaiah	1:14	Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them.
Isaiah	1:15	When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you; even though you make many prayers, I will not listen; your hands are full of blood.
Isaiah	1:16	Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil,
Isaiah	1:17	learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause.
Isaiah	1:18	"Come now, let us reason together, says the LORD: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool.
Isaiah	1:19	If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
Isaiah	1:20	but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
Isaiah	1:21	How the faithful city has become a whore, she who was full of justice! Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
Isaiah	1:22	Your silver has become dross, your best wine mixed with water.
Isaiah	1:23	Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them.
Isaiah	1:24	Therefore the Lord declares, the LORD of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: "Ah, I will get relief from my enemies and avenge myself on my foes.
Isaiah	1:25	I will turn my hand against you and will smelt away your dross as with lye and remove all your alloy.
Isaiah	1:26	And I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city."
Isaiah	1:27	Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent, by righteousness.
Isaiah	1:28	But rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
Isaiah	1:29	For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired; and you shall blush for the gardens that you have chosen.
Isaiah	1:30	For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water.
Isaiah	1:31	And the strong shall become tinder, and his work a spark, and both of them shall burn together, with none to quench them.
Isaiah	2:1	The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
Isaiah	2:2	It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills; and all the nations shall flow to it,
Isaiah	2:3	and many peoples shall come, and say: "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths." For out of Zion shall go the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Isaiah	2:4	He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore.
Isaiah	2:5	O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the LORD.
Isaiah	2:6	For you have rejected your people, the house of Jacob, because they are full of things from the east and of fortune-tellers like the Philistines, and they strike hands with the children of foreigners.
Isaiah	2:7	Their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures; their land is filled with horses, and there is no end to their chariots.
Isaiah	2:8	Their land is filled with idols; they bow down to the work of their hands, to what their own fingers have made.
Isaiah	2:9	So man is humbled, and each one is brought low--do not forgive them!
Isaiah	2:10	Enter into the rock and hide in the dust from before the terror of the LORD, and from the splendor of his majesty.
Isaiah	2:11	The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of men shall be humbled, and the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isaiah	2:12	For the LORD of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up--and it shall be brought low;
Isaiah	2:13	against all the cedars of Lebanon, lofty and lifted up; and against all the oaks of Bashan;
Isaiah	2:14	against all the lofty mountains, and against all the uplifted hills;
Isaiah	2:15	against every high tower, and against every fortified wall;
Isaiah	2:16	against all the ships of Tarshish, and against all the beautiful craft.
Isaiah	2:17	And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty pride of men shall be brought low, and the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isaiah	2:18	And the idols shall utterly pass away.
Isaiah	2:19	And people shall enter the caves of the rocks and the holes of the ground, from before the terror of the LORD, and from the splendor of his majesty, when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isaiah	2:20	In that day mankind will cast away their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for themselves to worship, to the moles and to the bats,
Isaiah	2:21	to enter the caverns of the rocks and the clefts of the cliffs, from before the terror of the LORD, and from the splendor of his majesty, when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isaiah	2:22	Stop regarding man in whose nostrils is breath, for of what account is he?
Isaiah	3:1	For behold, the Lord GOD of hosts is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah support and supply, all support of bread, and all support of water;
Isaiah	3:2	the mighty man and the soldier, the judge and the prophet, the diviner and the elder,
Isaiah	3:3	the captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the skillful magician and the expert in charms.
Isaiah	3:4	And I will make boys their princes, and infants shall rule over them.
Isaiah	3:5	And the people will oppress one another, every one his fellow and every one his neighbor; the youth will be insolent to the elder, and the despised to the honorable.
Isaiah	3:6	For a man will take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying: "You have a cloak; you shall be our leader, and this heap of ruins shall be under your rule";
Isaiah	3:7	in that day he will speak out, saying: "I will not be a healer; in my house there is neither bread nor cloak; you shall not make me leader of the people."
Isaiah	3:8	For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen, because their speech and their deeds are against the LORD, defying his glorious presence.
Isaiah	3:9	For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil on themselves.
Isaiah	3:10	Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
Isaiah	3:11	Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him.
Isaiah	3:12	My people--infants are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, your guides mislead you and they have swallowed up the course of your paths.
Isaiah	3:13	The LORD has taken his place to contend; he stands to judge peoples.
Isaiah	3:14	The LORD will enter into judgment with the elders and princes of his people: "It is you who have devoured the vineyard, the spoil of the poor is in your houses.
Isaiah	3:15	What do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the face of the poor?" declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah	3:16	The LORD said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks, glancing wantonly with their eyes, mincing along as they go, tinkling with their feet,
Isaiah	3:17	therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the heads of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare their secret parts.
Isaiah	3:18	In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents;
Isaiah	3:19	the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves;
Isaiah	3:20	the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets;
Isaiah	3:21	the signet rings and nose rings;
Isaiah	3:22	the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags;
Isaiah	3:23	the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
Isaiah	3:24	Instead of perfume there will be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a skirt of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty.
Isaiah	3:25	Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty men in battle.
Isaiah	3:26	And her gates shall lament and mourn; empty, she shall sit on the ground.
Isaiah	4:1	And seven women shall take hold of one man in that day, saying, "We will eat our own bread and wear our own clothes, only let us be called by your name; take away our reproach."
Isaiah	4:2	In that day the branch of the LORD shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel.
Isaiah	4:3	And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem,
Isaiah	4:4	when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment and by a spirit of burning.
Isaiah	4:5	Then the LORD will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and over her assemblies a cloud by day, and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory there will be a canopy.
Isaiah	4:6	There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat, and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain.
Isaiah	5:1	Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard: My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill.
Isaiah	5:2	He dug it and cleared it of stones, and planted it with choice vines; he built a watchtower in the midst of it, and hewed out a wine vat in it; and he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.
Isaiah	5:3	And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard.
Isaiah	5:4	What more was there to do for my vineyard, that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes?
Isaiah	5:5	And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge, and it shall be devoured; I will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down.
Isaiah	5:6	I will make it a waste; it shall not be pruned or hoed, and briers and thorns shall grow up; I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
Isaiah	5:7	For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant planting; and he looked for justice, but behold, bloodshed; for righteousness, but behold, an outcry!
Isaiah	5:8	Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, until there is no more room, and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land.
Isaiah	5:9	The LORD of hosts has sworn in my hearing: "Surely many houses shall be desolate, large and beautiful houses, without inhabitant.
Isaiah	5:10	For ten acres of vineyard shall yield but one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield but an ephah."
Isaiah	5:11	Woe to those who rise early in the morning, that they may run after strong drink, who tarry late into the evening as wine inflames them!
Isaiah	5:12	They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute and wine at their feasts, but they do not regard the deeds of the LORD, or see the work of his hands.
Isaiah	5:13	Therefore my people go into exile for lack of knowledge; their honored men go hungry, and their multitude is parched with thirst.
Isaiah	5:14	Therefore Sheol has enlarged its appetite and opened its mouth beyond measure, and the nobility of Jerusalem and her multitude will go down, her revelers and he who exults in her.
Isaiah	5:15	Man is humbled, and each one is brought low, and the eyes of the haughty are brought low.
Isaiah	5:16	But the LORD of hosts is exalted in justice, and the Holy God shows himself holy in righteousness.
Isaiah	5:17	Then shall the lambs graze as in their pasture, and nomads shall eat among the ruins of the rich.
Isaiah	5:18	Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, who draw sin as with cart ropes,
Isaiah	5:19	who say: "Let him be quick, let him speed his work that we may see it; let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near, and let it come, that we may know it!"
Isaiah	5:20	Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!
Isaiah	5:21	Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, and shrewd in their own sight!
Isaiah	5:22	Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine, and valiant men in mixing strong drink,
Isaiah	5:23	who acquit the guilty for a bribe, and deprive the innocent of his right!
Isaiah	5:24	Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble, and as dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their root will be as rottenness, and their blossom go up like dust; for they have rejected the law of the LORD of hosts, and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	5:25	Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he stretched out his hand against them and struck them, and the mountains quaked; and their corpses were as refuse in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah	5:26	He will raise a signal for nations afar off, and whistle for them from the ends of the earth; and behold, quickly, speedily they come!
Isaiah	5:27	None is weary, none stumbles, none slumbers or sleeps, not a waistband is loose, not a sandal strap broken;
Isaiah	5:28	their arrows are sharp, all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs seem like flint, and their wheels like the whirlwind.
Isaiah	5:29	Their roaring is like a lion, like young lions they roar; they growl and seize their prey; they carry it off, and none can rescue.
Isaiah	5:30	They will growl over it on that day, like the growling of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold, darkness and distress; and the light is darkened by its clouds.
Isaiah	6:1	In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and the train of his robe filled the temple.
Isaiah	6:2	Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.
Isaiah	6:3	And one called to another and said: "Holy, holy, holy is the LORD of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory!"
Isaiah	6:4	And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke.
Isaiah	6:5	And I said: "Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts!"
Isaiah	6:6	Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar.
Isaiah	6:7	And he touched my mouth and said: "Behold, this has touched your lips; your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for.
Isaiah	6:8	And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, "Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?" Then I said, "Here am I! Send me."
Isaiah	6:9	And he said, "Go, and say to this people: "'Keep on hearing, but do not understand; keep on seeing, but do not perceive.'
Isaiah	6:10	Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed."
Isaiah	6:11	Then I said, "How long, O Lord?" And he said: "Until cities lie waste without inhabitant, and houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste,
Isaiah	6:12	and the LORD removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land.
Isaiah	6:13	And though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again, like a terebinth or an oak, whose stump remains when it is felled." The holy seed is its stump.
Isaiah	7:1	In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it.
Isaiah	7:2	When the house of David was told, "Syria is in league with Ephraim," the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind.
Isaiah	7:3	And the LORD said to Isaiah, "Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isaiah	7:4	And say to him, 'Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah.
Isaiah	7:5	Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying,
Isaiah	7:6	"Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabeel as king in the midst of it,"
Isaiah	7:7	thus says the Lord GOD: "'It shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass.
Isaiah	7:8	For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin.(Within sixty-five years Ephraim will be broken to pieces so that it will no longer be a people.)
Isaiah	7:9	"'And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.'"
Isaiah	7:10	Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz,
Isaiah	7:11	"Ask a sign of the LORD your God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven."
Isaiah	7:12	But Ahaz said, "I will not ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test."
Isaiah	7:13	And he said, "Hear then, O house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my God also?
Isaiah	7:14	Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
Isaiah	7:15	He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good.
Isaiah	7:16	For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted.
Isaiah	7:17	The LORD will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah--the king of Assyria."
Isaiah	7:18	In that day the LORD will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
Isaiah	7:19	And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all the thornbushes, and on all the pastures.
Isaiah	7:20	In that day the Lord will shave with a razor that is hired beyond the River--with the king of Assyria--the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also.
Isaiah	7:21	In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep,
Isaiah	7:22	and because of the abundance of milk that they give, he will eat curds, for everyone who is left in the land will eat curds and honey.
Isaiah	7:23	In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels of silver, will become briers and thorns.
Isaiah	7:24	With bow and arrows a man will come there, for all the land will be briers and thorns.
Isaiah	7:25	And as for all the hills that used to be hoed with a hoe, you will not come there for fear of briers and thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose and where sheep tread.
Isaiah	8:1	Then the LORD said to me, "Take a large tablet and write on it in common characters, 'Belonging to Maher-shalal-hashbaz.'
Isaiah	8:2	And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah, to attest for me."
Isaiah	8:3	And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then the LORD said to me, "Call his name Maher-shalal-hashbaz;
Isaiah	8:4	for before the boy knows how to cry 'My father' or 'My mother,' the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria."
Isaiah	8:5	The LORD spoke to me again:
Isaiah	8:6	"Because this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that flow gently, and rejoice over Rezin and the son of Remaliah,
Isaiah	8:7	therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the River, mighty and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory. And it will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks,
Isaiah	8:8	and it will sweep on into Judah, it will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck, and its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Immanuel."
Isaiah	8:9	Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered; give ear, all you far countries; strap on your armor and be shattered; strap on your armor and be shattered.
Isaiah	8:10	Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing; speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is with us.
Isaiah	8:11	For the LORD spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way of this people, saying:
Isaiah	8:12	"Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy, and do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread.
Isaiah	8:13	But the LORD of hosts, him you shall regard as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
Isaiah	8:14	And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Isaiah	8:15	And many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken; they shall be snared and taken."
Isaiah	8:16	Bind up the testimony; seal the teaching among my disciples.
Isaiah	8:17	I will wait for the LORD, who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him.
Isaiah	8:18	Behold, I and the children whom the LORD has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the LORD of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion.
Isaiah	8:19	And when they say to you, "Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter," should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living?
Isaiah	8:20	To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn.
Isaiah	8:21	They will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry. And when they are hungry, they will be enraged and will speak contemptuously against their king and their God, and turn their faces upward.
Isaiah	8:22	And they will look to the earth, but behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish. And they will be thrust into thick darkness.
Isaiah	9:1	But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
Isaiah	9:2	The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shined.
Isaiah	9:3	You have multiplied the nation; you have increased its joy; they rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil.
Isaiah	9:4	For the yoke of his burden, and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Midian.
Isaiah	9:5	For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire.
Isaiah	9:6	For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
Isaiah	9:7	Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.
Isaiah	9:8	The Lord has sent a word against Jacob, and it will fall on Israel;
Isaiah	9:9	and all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in pride and in arrogance of heart:
Isaiah	9:10	"The bricks have fallen, but we will build with dressed stones; the sycamores have been cut down, but we will put cedars in their place."
Isaiah	9:11	But the LORD raises the adversaries of Rezin against him, and stirs up his enemies.
Isaiah	9:12	The Syrians on the east and the Philistines on the west devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah	9:13	The people did not turn to him who struck them, nor inquire of the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah	9:14	So the LORD cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed in one day--
Isaiah	9:15	the elder and honored man is the head, and the prophet who teaches lies is the tail;
Isaiah	9:16	for those who guide this people have been leading them astray, and those who are guided by them are swallowed up.
Isaiah	9:17	Therefore the Lord does not rejoice over their young men, and has no compassion on their fatherless and widows; for everyone is godless and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah	9:18	For wickedness burns like a fire; it consumes briers and thorns; it kindles the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke.
Isaiah	9:19	Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts the land is scorched, and the people are like fuel for the fire; no one spares another.
Isaiah	9:20	They slice meat on the right, but are still hungry, and they devour on the left, but are not satisfied; each devours the flesh of his own arm,
Isaiah	9:21	Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim devours Manasseh; together they are against Judah. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah	10:1	Woe to those who decree iniquitous decrees, and the writers who keep writing oppression,
Isaiah	10:2	to turn aside the needy from justice and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey!
Isaiah	10:3	What will you do on the day of punishment, in the ruin that will come from afar? To whom will you flee for help, and where will you leave your wealth?
Isaiah	10:4	Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners or fall among the slain. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah	10:5	Ah, Assyria, the rod of my anger; the staff in their hands is my fury!
Isaiah	10:6	Against a godless nation I send him, and against the people of my wrath I command him, to take spoil and seize plunder, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
Isaiah	10:7	But he does not so intend, and his heart does not so think; but it is in his heart to destroy, and to cut off nations not a few;
Isaiah	10:8	for he says: "Are not my commanders all kings?
Isaiah	10:9	Is not Calno like Carchemish? Is not Hamath like Arpad? Is not Samaria like Damascus?
Isaiah	10:10	As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols, whose carved images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria,
Isaiah	10:11	shall I not do to Jerusalem and her idols as I have done to Samaria and her images?"
Isaiah	10:12	When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, he will punish the speech of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes.
Isaiah	10:13	For he says: "By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I have understanding; I remove the boundaries of peoples, and plunder their treasures; like a bull I bring down those who sit on thrones.
Isaiah	10:14	My hand has found like a nest the wealth of the peoples; and as one gathers eggs that have been forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved a wing or opened the mouth or chirped."
Isaiah	10:15	Shall the axe boast over him who hews with it, or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it? As if a rod should wield him who lifts it, or as if a staff should lift him who is not wood!
Isaiah	10:16	Therefore the Lord GOD of hosts will send wasting sickness among his stout warriors, and under his glory a burning will be kindled, like the burning of fire.
Isaiah	10:17	The light of Israel will become a fire, and his Holy One a flame, and it will burn and devour his thorns and briers in one day.
Isaiah	10:18	The glory of his forest and of his fruitful land the LORD will destroy, both soul and body, and it will be as when a sick man wastes away.
Isaiah	10:19	The remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few that a child can write them down.
Isaiah	10:20	In that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who struck them, but will lean on the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
Isaiah	10:21	A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
Isaiah	10:22	For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness.
Isaiah	10:23	For the Lord GOD of hosts will make a full end, as decreed, in the midst of all the earth.
Isaiah	10:24	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD of hosts: "O my people, who dwell in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrians when they strike with the rod and lift up their staff against you as the Egyptians did.
Isaiah	10:25	For in a very little while my fury will come to an end, and my anger will be directed to their destruction.
Isaiah	10:26	And the LORD of hosts will wield against them a whip, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb. And his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt.
Isaiah	10:27	And in that day his burden will depart from your shoulder, and his yoke from your neck; and the yoke will be broken because of the fat."
Isaiah	10:28	He has come to Aiath; he has passed through Migron; at Michmash he stores his baggage;
Isaiah	10:29	they have crossed over the pass; at Geba they lodge for the night; Ramah trembles; Gibeah of Saul has fled.
Isaiah	10:30	Cry aloud, O daughter of Gallim! Give attention, O Laishah! O Poor Anathoth!
Isaiah	10:31	Madmenah is in flight; the inhabitants of Gebim flee for safety.
Isaiah	10:32	This very day he will halt at Nob; he will shake his fist at the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
Isaiah	10:33	Behold, the Lord GOD of hosts will lop the boughs with terrifying power; the great in height will be hewn down, and the lofty will be brought low.
Isaiah	10:34	He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an axe, and Lebanon will fall by the Majestic One.
Isaiah	11:1	There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit.
Isaiah	11:2	And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD.
Isaiah	11:3	And his delight shall be in the fear of the LORD. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear,
Isaiah	11:4	but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth; and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked.
Isaiah	11:5	Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins.
Isaiah	11:6	The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together; and a little child shall lead them.
Isaiah	11:7	The cow and the bear shall graze; their young shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
Isaiah	11:8	The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the adder's den.
Isaiah	11:9	They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Isaiah	11:10	In that day the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples--of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious.
Isaiah	11:11	In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his people, from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the coastlands of the sea.
Isaiah	11:12	He will raise a signal for the nations and will assemble the banished of Israel, and gather the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
Isaiah	11:13	The jealousy of Ephraim shall depart, and those who harass Judah shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not be jealous of Judah, and Judah shall not harass Ephraim.
Isaiah	11:14	But they shall swoop down on the shoulder of the Philistines in the west, and together they shall plunder the people of the east. They shall put out their hand against Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites shall obey them.
Isaiah	11:15	And the LORD will utterly destroy the tongue of the Sea of Egypt, and will wave his hand over the River with his scorching breath, and strike it into seven channels, and he will lead people across in sandals.
Isaiah	11:16	And there will be a highway from Assyria for the remnant that remains of his people, as there was for Israel when they came up from the land of Egypt.
Isaiah	12:1	You will say in that day: "I will give thanks to you, O LORD, for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away, that you might comfort me.
Isaiah	12:2	"Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be afraid; for the LORD GOD is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation."
Isaiah	12:3	With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation.
Isaiah	12:4	And you will say in that day: "Give thanks to the LORD, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples, proclaim that his name is exalted.
Isaiah	12:5	"Sing praises to the LORD, for he has done gloriously; let this be made known in all the earth.
Isaiah	12:6	Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel."
Isaiah	13:1	The oracle concerning Babylon which Isaiah the son of Amoz saw.
Isaiah	13:2	On a bare hill raise a signal; cry aloud to them; wave the hand for them to enter the gates of the nobles.
Isaiah	13:3	I myself have commanded my consecrated ones, and have summoned my mighty men to execute my anger, my proudly exulting ones.
Isaiah	13:4	The sound of a tumult is on the mountains as of a great multitude! The sound of an uproar of kingdoms, of nations gathering together! The LORD of hosts is mustering a host for battle.
Isaiah	13:5	They come from a distant land, from the end of the heavens, the LORD and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.
Isaiah	13:6	Wail, for the day of the LORD is near; as destruction from the Almighty it will come!
Isaiah	13:7	Therefore all hands will be feeble, and every human heart will melt.
Isaiah	13:8	They will be dismayed: pangs and agony will seize them; they will be in anguish like a woman in labor. They will look aghast at one another; their faces will be aflame.
Isaiah	13:9	Behold, the day of the LORD comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land a desolation and to destroy its sinners from it.
Isaiah	13:10	For the stars of the heavens and their constellations will not give their light; the sun will be dark at its rising, and the moon will not shed its light.
Isaiah	13:11	I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless.
Isaiah	13:12	I will make people more rare than fine gold, and mankind than the gold of Ophir.
Isaiah	13:13	Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place, at the wrath of the LORD of hosts in the day of his fierce anger.
Isaiah	13:14	And like a hunted gazelle, or like sheep with none to gather them, each will turn to his own people, and each will flee to his own land.
Isaiah	13:15	Whoever is found will be thrust through, and whoever is caught will fall by the sword.
Isaiah	13:16	Their infants will be dashed in pieces before their eyes; their houses will be plundered and their wives ravished.
Isaiah	13:17	Behold, I am stirring up the Medes against them, who have no regard for silver and do not delight in gold.
Isaiah	13:18	Their bows will slaughter the young men; they will have no mercy on the fruit of the womb; their eyes will not pity children.
Isaiah	13:19	And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the splendor and pomp of the Chaldeans, will be like Sodom and Gomorrah when God overthrew them.
Isaiah	13:20	It will never be inhabited or lived in for all generations; no Arab will pitch his tent there; no shepherds will make their flocks lie down there.
Isaiah	13:21	But wild animals will lie down there, and their houses will be full of howling creatures; there ostriches will dwell, and there wild goats will dance.
Isaiah	13:22	Hyenas will cry in its towers, and jackals in the pleasant palaces; its time is close at hand and its days will not be prolonged.
Isaiah	14:1	For the LORD will have compassion on Jacob and will again choose Israel, and will set them in their own land, and sojourners will join them and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob.
Isaiah	14:2	And the peoples will take them and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will possess them in the LORD's land as male and female slaves. They will take captive those who were their captors, and rule over those who oppressed them.
Isaiah	14:3	When the LORD has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve,
Isaiah	14:4	you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon: "How the oppressor has ceased, the insolent fury ceased!
Isaiah	14:5	The LORD has broken the staff of the wicked, the scepter of rulers,
Isaiah	14:6	that struck the peoples in wrath with unceasing blows, that ruled the nations in anger with unrelenting persecution.
Isaiah	14:7	The whole earth is at rest and quiet; they break forth into singing.
Isaiah	14:8	The cypresses rejoice at you, the cedars of Lebanon, saying, 'Since you were laid low, no woodcutter comes up against us.'
Isaiah	14:9	Sheol beneath is stirred up to meet you when you come; it rouses the shades to greet you, all who were leaders of the earth; it raises from their thrones all who were kings of the nations.
Isaiah	14:10	All of them will answer and say to you: 'You too have become as weak as we! You have become like us!'
Isaiah	14:11	Your pomp is brought down to Sheol, the sound of your harps; maggots are laid as a bed beneath you, and worms are your covers.
Isaiah	14:12	"How you are fallen from heaven, O Day Star, son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low!
Isaiah	14:13	You said in your heart, 'I will ascend to heaven; above the stars of God I will set my throne on high; I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north;
Isaiah	14:14	I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.'
Isaiah	14:15	But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit.
Isaiah	14:16	Those who see you will stare at you and ponder over you: 'Is this the man who made the earth tremble, who shook kingdoms,
Isaiah	14:17	who made the world like a desert and overthrew its cities, who did not let his prisoners go home?'
Isaiah	14:18	All the kings of the nations lie in glory, each in his own tomb;
Isaiah	14:19	but you are cast out, away from your grave, like a loathed branch, clothed with the slain, those pierced by the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit, like a dead body trampled underfoot.
Isaiah	14:20	You will not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, you have slain your people."May the offspring of evildoers nevermore be named!
Isaiah	14:21	Prepare slaughter for his sons because of the guilt of their fathers, lest they rise and possess the earth, and fill the face of the world with cities."
Isaiah	14:22	"I will rise up against them," declares the LORD of hosts, "and will cut off from Babylon name and remnant, descendants and posterity," says the LORD.
Isaiah	14:23	"And I will make it a possession of the hedgehog, and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction," declares the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah	14:24	The LORD of hosts has sworn: "As I have planned, so shall it be, and as I have purposed, so shall it stand,
Isaiah	14:25	that I will break the Assyrian in my land, and on my mountains trample him underfoot; and his yoke shall depart from them, and his burden from their shoulder."
Isaiah	14:26	This is the purpose that is purposed concerning the whole earth, and this is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations.
Isaiah	14:27	For the LORD of hosts has purposed, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back?
Isaiah	14:28	In the year that King Ahaz died came this oracle:
Isaiah	14:29	Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you, that the rod that struck you is broken, for from the serpent's root will come forth an adder, and its fruit will be a flying fiery serpent.
Isaiah	14:30	And the firstborn of the poor will graze, and the needy lie down in safety; but I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant it will slay.
Isaiah	14:31	Wail, O gate; cry out, O city; melt in fear, O Philistia, all of you! For smoke comes out of the north, and there is no straggler in his ranks.
Isaiah	14:32	What will one answer the messengers of the nation? "The LORD has founded Zion, and in her the afflicted of his people find refuge."
Isaiah	15:1	An oracle concerning Moab. Because Ar of Moab is laid waste in a night, Moab is undone; because Kir of Moab is laid waste in a night, Moab is undone.
Isaiah	15:2	He has gone up to the temple, and to Dibon, to the high places to weep; over Nebo and over Medeba Moab wails. On every head is baldness; every beard is shorn;
Isaiah	15:3	in the streets they wear sackcloth; on the housetops and in the squares everyone wails and melts in tears.
Isaiah	15:4	Heshbon and Elealeh cry out; their voice is heard as far as Jahaz; therefore the armed men of Moab cry aloud; his soul trembles.
Isaiah	15:5	My heart cries out for Moab; her fugitives flee to Zoar, to Eglath-shelishiyah. For at the ascent of Luhith they go up weeping; on the road to Horonaim they raise a cry of destruction;
Isaiah	15:6	the waters of Nimrim are a desolation; the grass is withered, the vegetation fails, the greenery is no more.
Isaiah	15:7	Therefore the abundance they have gained and what they have laid up they carry away over the Brook of the Willows.
Isaiah	15:8	For a cry has gone around the land of Moab; her wailing reaches to Eglaim; her wailing reaches to Beer-elim.
Isaiah	15:9	For the waters of Dibon are full of blood; for I will bring upon Dibon even more, a lion for those of Moab who escape, for the remnant of the land.
Isaiah	16:1	Send the lamb to the ruler of the land, from Sela, by way of the desert, to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
Isaiah	16:2	Like fleeing birds, like a scattered nest, so are the daughters of Moab at the fords of the Arnon.
Isaiah	16:3	"Give counsel; grant justice; make your shade like night at the height of noon; shelter the outcasts; do not reveal the fugitive;
Isaiah	16:4	let the outcasts of Moab sojourn among you; be a shelter to them from the destroyer. When the oppressor is no more and destruction has ceased, and he who tramples underfoot has vanished from the land,
Isaiah	16:5	then a throne will be established in steadfast love, and on it will sit in faithfulness in the tent of David one who judges and seeks justice and is swift to do righteousness."
Isaiah	16:6	We have heard of the pride of Moab--how proud he is!--of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence; in his idle boasting he is not right.
Isaiah	16:7	Therefore let Moab wail for Moab, let everyone wail. Mourn, utterly stricken, for the raisin cakes of Kir-hareseth.
Isaiah	16:8	For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have struck down its branches, which reached to Jazer and strayed to the desert; its shoots spread abroad and passed over the sea.
Isaiah	16:9	Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sibmah; I drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for over your summer fruit and your harvest the shout has ceased.
Isaiah	16:10	And joy and gladness are taken away from the fruitful field, and in the vineyards no songs are sung, no cheers are raised; no treader treads out wine in the presses; I have put an end to the shouting.
Isaiah	16:11	Therefore my inner parts moan like a lyre for Moab, and my inmost self for Kir-hareseth.
Isaiah	16:12	And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself on the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.
Isaiah	16:13	This is the word that the LORD spoke concerning Moab in the past.
Isaiah	16:14	But now the LORD has spoken, saying, "In three years, like the years of a hired worker, the glory of Moab will be brought into contempt, in spite of all his great multitude, and those who remain will be very few and feeble."
Isaiah	17:1	An oracle concerning Damascus. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city and will become a heap of ruins.
Isaiah	17:2	The cities of Aroer are deserted; they will be for flocks, which will lie down, and none will make them afraid.
Isaiah	17:3	The fortress will disappear from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus; and the remnant of Syria will be like the glory of the children of Israel, declares the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah	17:4	And in that day the glory of Jacob will be brought low, and the fat of his flesh will grow lean.
Isaiah	17:5	And it shall be as when the reaper gathers standing grain and his arm harvests the ears, and as when one gleans the ears of grain in the Valley of Rephaim.
Isaiah	17:6	Gleanings will be left in it, as when an olive tree is beaten--two or three berries in the top of the highest bough, four or five on the branches of a fruit tree, declares the LORD God of Israel.
Isaiah	17:7	In that day man will look to his Maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	17:8	He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, and he will not look on what his own fingers have made, either the Asherim or the altars of incense.
Isaiah	17:9	In that day their strong cities will be like the deserted places of the wooded heights and the hilltops, which they deserted because of the children of Israel, and there will be desolation.
Isaiah	17:10	For you have forgotten the God of your salvation and have not remembered the Rock of your refuge; therefore, though you plant pleasant plants and sow the vine-branch of a stranger,
Isaiah	17:11	though you make them grow on the day that you plant them, and make them blossom in the morning that you sow, yet the harvest will flee away in a day of grief and incurable pain.
Isaiah	17:12	Ah, the thunder of many peoples; they thunder like the thundering of the sea! Ah, the roar of nations; they roar like the roaring of mighty waters!
Isaiah	17:13	The nations roar like the roaring of many waters, but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far away, chased like chaff on the mountains before the wind and whirling dust before the storm.
Isaiah	17:14	At evening time, behold, terror! Before morning, they are no more! This is the portion of those who loot us, and the lot of those who plunder us.
Isaiah	18:1	Ah, land of whirring wings that is beyond the rivers of Cush,
Isaiah	18:2	which sends ambassadors by the sea, in vessels of papyrus on the waters! Go, you swift messengers, to a nation, tall and smooth, to a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide.
Isaiah	18:3	All you inhabitants of the world, you who dwell on the earth, when a signal is raised on the mountains, look! When a trumpet is blown, hear!
Isaiah	18:4	For thus the LORD said to me: "I will quietly look from my dwelling like clear heat in sunshine, like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest."
Isaiah	18:5	For before the harvest, when the blossom is over, and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he cuts off the shoots with pruning hooks, and the spreading branches he lops off and clears away.
Isaiah	18:6	They shall all of them be left to the birds of prey of the mountains and to the beasts of the earth. And the birds of prey will summer on them, and all the beasts of the earth will winter on them.
Isaiah	18:7	At that time tribute will be brought to the LORD of hosts from a people tall and smooth, from a people feared near and far, a nation mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide,to Mount Zion, the place of the name of the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah	19:1	An oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, the LORD is riding on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt; and the idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them.
Isaiah	19:2	And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians, and they will fight, each against another and each against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom;
Isaiah	19:3	and the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out, and I will confound their counsel; and they will inquire of the idols and the sorcerers, and the mediums and the necromancers;
Isaiah	19:4	and I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a hard master, and a fierce king will rule over them, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah	19:5	And the waters of the sea will be dried up, and the river will be dry and parched,
Isaiah	19:6	and its canals will become foul, and the branches of Egypt's Nile will diminish and dry up, reeds and rushes will rot away.
Isaiah	19:7	There will be bare places by the Nile, on the brink of the Nile, and all that is sown by the Nile will be parched, will be driven away, and will be no more.
Isaiah	19:8	The fishermen will mourn and lament, all who cast a hook in the Nile; and they will languish who spread nets on the water.
Isaiah	19:9	The workers in combed flax will be in despair, and the weavers of white cotton.
Isaiah	19:10	Those who are the pillars of the land will be crushed, and all who work for pay will be grieved.
Isaiah	19:11	The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the wisest counselors of Pharaoh give stupid counsel. How can you say to Pharaoh, "I am a son of the wise, a son of ancient kings"?
Isaiah	19:12	Where then are your wise men? Let them tell you that they might know what the LORD of hosts has purposed against Egypt.
Isaiah	19:13	The princes of Zoan have become fools, and the princes of Memphis are deluded; those who are the cornerstones of her tribes have made Egypt stagger.
Isaiah	19:14	The LORD has mingled within her a spirit of confusion, and they will make Egypt stagger in all its deeds, as a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
Isaiah	19:15	And there will be nothing for Egypt that head or tail, palm branch or reed, may do.
Isaiah	19:16	In that day the Egyptians will be like women, and tremble with fear before the hand that the LORD of hosts shakes over them.
Isaiah	19:17	And the land of Judah will become a terror to the Egyptians. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will fear because of the purpose that the LORD of hosts has purposed against them.
Isaiah	19:18	In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan and swear allegiance to the LORD of hosts. One of these will be called the City of Destruction.
Isaiah	19:19	In that day there will be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the LORD at its border.
Isaiah	19:20	It will be a sign and a witness to the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt. When they cry to the LORD because of oppressors, he will send them a savior and defender, and deliver them.
Isaiah	19:21	And the LORD will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the LORD in that day and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the LORD and perform them.
Isaiah	19:22	And the LORD will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the LORD, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.
Isaiah	19:23	In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria will come into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.
Isaiah	19:24	In that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth,
Isaiah	19:25	whom the LORD of hosts has blessed, saying, "Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance."
Isaiah	20:1	In the year that the commander in chief, who was sent by Sargon the king of Assyria, came to Ashdod and fought against it and captured it--
Isaiah	20:2	at that time the LORD spoke by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, "Go, and loose the sackcloth from your waist and take off your sandals from your feet," and he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
Isaiah	20:3	Then the LORD said, "As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years as a sign and a portent against Egypt and Cush,
Isaiah	20:4	so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Cushite exiles, both the young and the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt.
Isaiah	20:5	Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast.
Isaiah	20:6	And the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, 'Behold, this is what has happened to those in whom we hoped and to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria! And we, how shall we escape?'"
Isaiah	21:1	The oracle concerning the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the Negeb sweep on, it comes from the wilderness, from a terrible land.
Isaiah	21:2	A stern vision is told to me; the traitor betrays, and the destroyer destroys. Go up, O Elam; lay siege, O Media; all the sighing she has caused I bring to an end.
Isaiah	21:3	Therefore my loins are filled with anguish; pangs have seized me, like the pangs of a woman in labor; I am bowed down so that I cannot hear; I am dismayed so that I cannot see.
Isaiah	21:4	My heart staggers; horror has appalled me; the twilight I longed for has been turned for me into trembling.
Isaiah	21:5	They prepare the table, they spread the rugs, they eat, they drink. Arise, O princes; oil the shield!
Isaiah	21:6	For thus the Lord said to me: "Go, set a watchman; let him announce what he sees.
Isaiah	21:7	When he sees riders, horsemen in pairs, riders on donkeys, riders on camels, let him listen diligently, very diligently."
Isaiah	21:8	Then he who saw cried out: "Upon a watchtower I stand, O Lord, continually by day, and at my post I am stationed whole nights.
Isaiah	21:9	And behold, here come riders, horsemen in pairs!" And he answered, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the carved images of her gods he has shattered to the ground."
Isaiah	21:10	O my threshed and winnowed one, what I have heard from the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, I announce to you.
Isaiah	21:11	The oracle concerning Dumah. One is calling to me from Seir, "Watchman, what time of the night? Watchman, what time of the night?"
Isaiah	21:12	The watchman says: "Morning comes, and also the night. If you will inquire, inquire; come back again."
Isaiah	21:13	The oracle concerning Arabia. In the thickets in Arabia you will lodge, O caravans of Dedanites.
Isaiah	21:14	To the thirsty bring water; meet the fugitive with bread, O inhabitants of the land of Tema.
Isaiah	21:15	For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the press of battle.
Isaiah	21:16	For thus the Lord said to me, "Within a year, according to the years of a hired worker, all the glory of Kedar will come to an end.
Isaiah	21:17	And the remainder of the archers of the mighty men of the sons of Kedar will be few, for the LORD, the God of Israel, has spoken."
Isaiah	22:1	The oracle concerning the valley of vision. What do you mean that you have gone up, all of you, to the housetops,
Isaiah	22:2	you who are full of shoutings, tumultuous city, exultant town? Your slain are not slain with the sword or dead in battle.
Isaiah	22:3	All your leaders have fled together; without the bow they were captured. All of you who were found were captured, though they had fled far away.
Isaiah	22:4	Therefore I said: "Look away from me; let me weep bitter tears; do not labor to comfort me concerning the destruction of the daughter of my people."
Isaiah	22:5	For the Lord GOD of hosts has a day of tumult and trampling and confusion in the valley of vision, a battering down of walls and a shouting to the mountains.
Isaiah	22:6	And Elam bore the quiver with chariots and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.
Isaiah	22:7	Your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen took their stand at the gates.
Isaiah	22:8	He has taken away the covering of Judah.In that day you looked to the weapons of the House of the Forest,
Isaiah	22:9	and you saw that the breaches of the city of David were many. You collected the waters of the lower pool,
Isaiah	22:10	and you counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
Isaiah	22:11	You made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you did not look to him who did it, or see him who planned it long ago.
Isaiah	22:12	In that day the Lord GOD of hosts called for weeping and mourning, for baldness and wearing sackcloth;
Isaiah	22:13	and behold, joy and gladness, killing oxen and slaughtering sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine. "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die."
Isaiah	22:14	The LORD of hosts has revealed himself in my ears: "Surely this iniquity will not be atoned for you until you die," says the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah	22:15	Thus says the Lord GOD of hosts, "Come, go to this steward, to Shebna, who is over the household, and say to him:
Isaiah	22:16	What have you to do here, and whom have you here, that you have cut out here a tomb for yourself, you who cut out a tomb on the height and carve a dwelling for yourself in the rock?
Isaiah	22:17	Behold, the LORD will hurl you away violently, O you strong man. He will seize firm hold on you
Isaiah	22:18	and whirl you around and around, and throw you like a ball into a wide land. There you shall die, and there shall be your glorious chariots, you shame of your master's house.
Isaiah	22:19	I will thrust you from your office, and you will be pulled down from your station.
Isaiah	22:20	In that day I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
Isaiah	22:21	and I will clothe him with your robe, and will bind your sash on him, and will commit your authority to his hand. And he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
Isaiah	22:22	And I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David. He shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.
Isaiah	22:23	And I will fasten him like a peg in a secure place, and he will become a throne of honor to his father's house.
Isaiah	22:24	And they will hang on him the whole honor of his father's house, the offspring and issue, every small vessel, from the cups to all the flagons.
Isaiah	22:25	In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, the peg that was fastened in a secure place will give way, and it will be cut down and fall, and the load that was on it will be cut off, for the LORD has spoken."
Isaiah	23:1	The oracle concerning Tyre. Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for Tyre is laid waste, without house or harbor! From the land of Cyprus it is revealed to them.
Isaiah	23:2	Be still, O inhabitants of the coast; the merchants of Sidon, who cross the sea, have filled you.
Isaiah	23:3	And on many waters your revenue was the grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile; you were the merchant of the nations.
Isaiah	23:4	Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying: "I have neither labored nor given birth, I have neither reared young men nor brought up young women."
Isaiah	23:5	When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish over the report about Tyre.
Isaiah	23:6	Cross over to Tarshish; wail, O inhabitants of the coast!
Isaiah	23:7	Is this your exultant city whose origin is from days of old, whose feet carried her to settle far away?
Isaiah	23:8	Who has purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose traders were the honored of the earth?
Isaiah	23:9	The LORD of hosts has purposed it, to defile the pompous pride of all glory, to dishonor all the honored of the earth.
Isaiah	23:10	Cross over your land like the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no restraint anymore.
Isaiah	23:11	He has stretched out his hand over the sea; he has shaken the kingdoms; the LORD has given command concerning Canaan to destroy its strongholds.
Isaiah	23:12	And he said: "You will no more exult, O oppressed virgin daughter of Sidon; arise, cross over to Cyprus, even there you will have no rest."
Isaiah	23:13	Behold the land of the Chaldeans! This is the people that was not; Assyria destined it for wild beasts. They erected their siege towers, they stripped her palaces bare, they made her a ruin.
Isaiah	23:14	Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste.
Isaiah	23:15	In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king. At the end of seventy years, it will happen to Tyre as in the song of the prostitute:
Isaiah	23:16	"Take a harp; go about the city, O forgotten prostitute! Make sweet melody; sing many songs, that you may be remembered."
Isaiah	23:17	At the end of seventy years, the LORD will visit Tyre, and she will return to her wages and will prostitute herself with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth.
Isaiah	23:18	Her merchandise and her wages will be holy to the LORD. It will not be stored or hoarded, but her merchandise will supply abundant food and fine clothing for those who dwell before the LORD.
Isaiah	24:1	Behold, the LORD will empty the earth and make it desolate, and he will twist its surface and scatter its inhabitants.
Isaiah	24:2	And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the slave, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor.
Isaiah	24:3	The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered; for the LORD has spoken this word.
Isaiah	24:4	The earth mourns and withers; the world languishes and withers; the highest people of the earth languish.
Isaiah	24:5	The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants; for they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant.
Isaiah	24:6	Therefore a curse devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt; therefore the inhabitants of the earth are scorched, and few men are left.
Isaiah	24:7	The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh.
Isaiah	24:8	The mirth of the tambourines is stilled, the noise of the jubilant has ceased, the mirth of the lyre is stilled.
Isaiah	24:9	No more do they drink wine with singing; strong drink is bitter to those who drink it.
Isaiah	24:10	The wasted city is broken down; every house is shut up so that none can enter.
Isaiah	24:11	There is an outcry in the streets for lack of wine; all joy has grown dark; the gladness of the earth is banished.
Isaiah	24:12	Desolation is left in the city; the gates are battered into ruins.
Isaiah	24:13	For thus it shall be in the midst of the earth among the nations, as when an olive tree is beaten, as at the gleaning when the grape harvest is done.
Isaiah	24:14	They lift up their voices, they sing for joy; over the majesty of the LORD they shout from the west.
Isaiah	24:15	Therefore in the east give glory to the LORD; in the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
Isaiah	24:16	From the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise, of glory to the Righteous One. But I say, "I waste away, I waste away. Woe is me! For the traitors have betrayed, with betrayal the traitors have betrayed."
Isaiah	24:17	Terror and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth!
Isaiah	24:18	He who flees at the sound of the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For the windows of heaven are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble.
Isaiah	24:19	The earth is utterly broken, the earth is split apart, the earth is violently shaken.
Isaiah	24:20	The earth staggers like a drunken man; it sways like a hut; its transgression lies heavy upon it, and it falls, and will not rise again.
Isaiah	24:21	On that day the LORD will punish the host of heaven, in heaven, and the kings of the earth, on the earth.
Isaiah	24:22	They will be gathered together as prisoners in a pit; they will be shut up in a prison, and after many days they will be punished.
Isaiah	24:23	Then the moon will be confounded and the sun ashamed, for the LORD of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders.
Isaiah	25:1	O LORD, you are my God; I will exalt you; I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure.
Isaiah	25:2	For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin; the foreigners' palace is a city no more; it will never be rebuilt.
Isaiah	25:3	Therefore strong peoples will glorify you; cities of ruthless nations will fear you.
Isaiah	25:4	For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat; for the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall,
Isaiah	25:5	like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of the foreigners; as heat by the shade of a cloud, so the song of the ruthless is put down.
Isaiah	25:6	On this mountain the LORD of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined.
Isaiah	25:7	And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations.
Isaiah	25:8	He will swallow up death forever; and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the LORD has spoken.
Isaiah	25:9	It will be said on that day, "Behold, this is our God; we have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the LORD; we have waited for him; let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation."
Isaiah	25:10	For the hand of the LORD will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trampled down in his place, as straw is trampled down in a dunghill.
Isaiah	25:11	And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it as a swimmer spreads his hands out to swim, but the LORD will lay low his pompous pride together with the skill of his hands.
Isaiah	25:12	And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground, to the dust.
Isaiah	26:1	In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a strong city; he sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks.
Isaiah	26:2	Open the gates, that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in.
Isaiah	26:3	You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.
Isaiah	26:4	Trust in the LORD forever, for the LORD GOD is an everlasting rock.
Isaiah	26:5	For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust.
Isaiah	26:6	The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy."
Isaiah	26:7	The path of the righteous is level; you make level the way of the righteous.
Isaiah	26:8	In the path of your judgments, O LORD, we wait for you; your name and remembrance are the desire of our soul.
Isaiah	26:9	My soul yearns for you in the night; my spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
Isaiah	26:10	If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness he deals corruptly and does not see the majesty of the LORD.
Isaiah	26:11	O LORD, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. Let them see your zeal for your people, and be ashamed. Let the fire for your adversaries consume them.
Isaiah	26:12	O LORD, you will ordain peace for us; you have done for us all our works.
Isaiah	26:13	O LORD our God, other lords besides you have ruled over us, but your name alone we bring to remembrance.
Isaiah	26:14	They are dead, they will not live; they are shades, they will not arise; to that end you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them.
Isaiah	26:15	But you have increased the nation, O LORD, you have increased the nation; you are glorified; you have enlarged all the borders of the land.
Isaiah	26:16	O LORD, in distress they sought you; they poured out a whispered prayer when your discipline was upon them.
Isaiah	26:17	Like a pregnant woman who writhes and cries out in her pangs when she is near to giving birth, so were we because of you, O LORD;
Isaiah	26:18	we were pregnant, we writhed, but we have given birth to wind. We have accomplished no deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world have not fallen.
Isaiah	26:19	Your dead shall live; their bodies shall rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and sing for joy! For your dew is a dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead.
Isaiah	26:20	Come, my people, enter your chambers, and shut your doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little while until the fury has passed by.
Isaiah	26:21	For behold, the LORD is coming out from his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity, and the earth will disclose the blood shed on it, and will no more cover its slain.
Isaiah	27:1	In that day the LORD with his hard and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan the fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent, and he will slay the dragon that is in the sea.
Isaiah	27:2	In that day, "A pleasant vineyard, sing of it!
Isaiah	27:3	I, the LORD, am its keeper; every moment I water it. Lest anyone punish it, I keep it night and day;
Isaiah	27:4	I have no wrath. Would that I had thorns and briers to battle! I would march against them, I would burn them up together.
Isaiah	27:5	Or let them lay hold of my protection, let them make peace with me, let them make peace with me."
Isaiah	27:6	In days to come Jacob shall take root, Israel shall blossom and put forth shoots and fill the whole world with fruit.
Isaiah	27:7	Has he struck them as he struck those who struck them? Or have they been slain as their slayers were slain?
Isaiah	27:8	Measure by measure, by exile you contended with them; he removed them with his fierce breath in the day of the east wind.
Isaiah	27:9	Therefore by this the guilt of Jacob will be atoned for, and this will be the full fruit of the removal of his sin: when he makes all the stones of the altars like chalkstones crushed to pieces, no Asherim or incense altars will remain standing.
Isaiah	27:10	For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness; there the calf grazes; there it lies down and strips its branches.
Isaiah	27:11	When its boughs are dry, they are broken; women come and make a fire of them. For this is a people without discernment; therefore he who made them will not have compassion on them; he who formed them will show them no favor.
Isaiah	27:12	In that day from the river Euphrates to the Brook of Egypt the LORD will thresh out the grain, and you will be gleaned one by one, O people of Israel.
Isaiah	27:13	And in that day a great trumpet will be blown, and those who were lost in the land of Assyria and those who were driven out to the land of Egypt will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain at Jerusalem.
Isaiah	28:1	Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine!
Isaiah	28:2	Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong; like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand.
Isaiah	28:3	The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot;
Isaiah	28:4	and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like a first-ripe fig before the summer: when someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand.
Isaiah	28:5	In that day the LORD of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his people,
Isaiah	28:6	and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
Isaiah	28:7	These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink, they are swallowed by wine, they stagger with strong drink, they reel in vision, they stumble in giving judgment.
Isaiah	28:8	For all tables are full of filthy vomit, with no space left.
Isaiah	28:9	"To whom will he teach knowledge, and to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, those taken from the breast?
Isaiah	28:10	For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little."
Isaiah	28:11	For by people of strange lips and with a foreign tongue the LORD will speak to this people,
Isaiah	28:12	to whom he has said, "This is rest; give rest to the weary; and this is repose"; yet they would not hear.
Isaiah	28:13	And the word of the LORD will be to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little, that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.
Isaiah	28:14	Therefore hear the word of the LORD, you scoffers, who rule this people in Jerusalem!
Isaiah	28:15	Because you have said, "We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement, when the overwhelming whip passes through it will not come to us, for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter";
Isaiah	28:16	therefore thus says the Lord GOD, "Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation: 'Whoever believes will not be in haste.'
Isaiah	28:17	And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plumb line; and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and waters will overwhelm the shelter."
Isaiah	28:18	Then your covenant with death will be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol will not stand; when the overwhelming scourge passes through, you will be beaten down by it.
Isaiah	28:19	As often as it passes through it will take you; for morning by morning it will pass through, by day and by night; and it will be sheer terror to understand the message.
Isaiah	28:20	For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in.
Isaiah	28:21	For the LORD will rise up as on Mount Perazim; as in the Valley of Gibeon he will be roused; to do his deed--strange is his deed! and to work his work--alien is his work!
Isaiah	28:22	Now therefore do not scoff, lest your bonds be made strong; for I have heard a decree of destruction from the Lord GOD of hosts against the whole land.
Isaiah	28:23	Give ear, and hear my voice; give attention, and hear my speech.
Isaiah	28:24	Does he who plows for sowing plow continually? does he continually open and harrow his ground?
Isaiah	28:25	When he has leveled its surface, does he not scatter dill, sow cumin, and put in wheat in rows and barley in its proper place, and emmer as the border?
Isaiah	28:26	For he is rightly instructed; his God teaches him.
Isaiah	28:27	Dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge, nor is a cart wheel rolled over cumin, but dill is beaten out with a stick, and cumin with a rod.
Isaiah	28:28	Does one crush grain for bread? No, he does not thresh it forever; when he drives his cart wheel over it with his horses, he does not crush it.
Isaiah	28:29	This also comes from the LORD of hosts; he is wonderful in counsel and excellent in wisdom.
Isaiah	29:1	Ah, Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped! Add year to year; let the feasts run their round.
Isaiah	29:2	Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be moaning and lamentation, and she shall be to me like an Ariel.
Isaiah	29:3	And I will encamp against you all around, and will besiege you with towers and I will raise siegeworks against you.
Isaiah	29:4	And you will be brought low; from the earth you shall speak, and from the dust your speech will be bowed down; your voice shall come from the ground like the voice of a ghost, and from the dust your speech shall whisper.
Isaiah	29:5	But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the ruthless like passing chaff. And in an instant, suddenly,
Isaiah	29:6	you will be visited by the LORD of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire.
Isaiah	29:7	And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all that fight against her and her stronghold and distress her, shall be like a dream, a vision of the night.
Isaiah	29:8	As when a hungry man dreams he is eating and awakes with his hunger not satisfied, or as when a thirsty man dreams he is drinking and awakes faint, with his thirst not quenched, so shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion.
Isaiah	29:9	Astonish yourselves and be astonished; blind yourselves and be blind! Be drunk, but not with wine; stagger, but not with strong drink!
Isaiah	29:10	For the LORD has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes (the prophets), and covered your heads (the seers).
Isaiah	29:11	And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot, for it is sealed."
Isaiah	29:12	And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot read."
Isaiah	29:13	And the Lord said: "Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men,
Isaiah	29:14	therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden."
Isaiah	29:15	Ah, you who hide deep from the LORD your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, "Who sees us? Who knows us?"
Isaiah	29:16	You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, "He did not make me"; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, "He has no understanding"?
Isaiah	29:17	Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest?
Isaiah	29:18	In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see.
Isaiah	29:19	The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the LORD, and the poor among mankind shall exult in the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	29:20	For the ruthless shall come to nothing and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut off,
Isaiah	29:21	who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate, and with an empty plea turn aside him who is in the right.
Isaiah	29:22	Therefore thus says the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: "Jacob shall no more be ashamed, no more shall his face grow pale.
Isaiah	29:23	For when he sees his children, the work of my hands, in his midst, they will sanctify my name; they will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob and will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
Isaiah	29:24	And those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding, and those who murmur will accept instruction."
Isaiah	30:1	"Ah, stubborn children," declares the LORD, "who carry out a plan, but not mine, and who make an alliance, but not of my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin;
Isaiah	30:2	who set out to go down to Egypt, without asking for my direction, to take refuge in the protection of Pharaoh and to seek shelter in the shadow of Egypt!
Isaiah	30:3	Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to your humiliation.
Isaiah	30:4	For though his officials are at Zoan and his envoys reach Hanes,
Isaiah	30:5	everyone comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them, that brings neither help nor profit, but shame and disgrace."
Isaiah	30:6	An oracle on the beasts of the Negeb. Through a land of trouble and anguish, from where come the lioness and the lion, the adder and the flying fiery serpent, they carry their riches on the backs of donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people that cannot profit them.
Isaiah	30:7	Egypt's help is worthless and empty; therefore I have called her "Rahab who sits still."
Isaiah	30:8	And now, go, write it before them on a tablet and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come as a witness forever.
Isaiah	30:9	For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children unwilling to hear the instruction of the LORD;
Isaiah	30:10	who say to the seers, "Do not see," and to the prophets, "Do not prophesy to us what is right; speak to us smooth things, prophesy illusions,
Isaiah	30:11	leave the way, turn aside from the path, let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel."
Isaiah	30:12	Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, "Because you despise this word and trust in oppression and perverseness and rely on them,
Isaiah	30:13	therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a breach in a high wall, bulging out, and about to collapse, whose breaking comes suddenly, in an instant;
Isaiah	30:14	and its breaking is like that of a potter's vessel that is smashed so ruthlessly that among its fragments not a shard is found with which to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern."
Isaiah	30:15	For thus said the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, "In returning and rest you shall be saved; in quietness and in trust shall be your strength." But you were unwilling,
Isaiah	30:16	and you said, "No! We will flee upon horses"; therefore you shall flee away; and, "We will ride upon swift steeds"; therefore your pursuers shall be swift.
Isaiah	30:17	A thousand shall flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five you shall flee, till you are left like a flagstaff on the top of a mountain, like a signal on a hill.
Isaiah	30:18	Therefore the LORD waits to be gracious to you, and therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to you. For the LORD is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him.
Isaiah	30:19	For a people shall dwell in Zion, in Jerusalem; you shall weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry. As soon as he hears it, he answers you.
Isaiah	30:20	And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher.
Isaiah	30:21	And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, "This is the way, walk in it," when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left.
Isaiah	30:22	Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, "Be gone!"
Isaiah	30:23	And he will give rain for the seed with which you sow the ground, and bread, the produce of the ground, which will be rich and plenteous. In that day your livestock will graze in large pastures,
Isaiah	30:24	and the oxen and the donkeys that work the ground will eat seasoned fodder, which has been winnowed with shovel and fork.
Isaiah	30:25	And on every lofty mountain and every high hill there will be brooks running with water, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
Isaiah	30:26	Moreover, the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day when the LORD binds up the brokenness of his people, and heals the wounds inflicted by his blow.
Isaiah	30:27	Behold, the name of the LORD comes from afar, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke; his lips are full of fury, and his tongue is like a devouring fire;
Isaiah	30:28	his breath is like an overflowing stream that reaches up to the neck; to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction, and to place on the jaws of the peoples a bridle that leads astray.
Isaiah	30:29	You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept, and gladness of heart, as when one sets out to the sound of the flute to go to the mountain of the LORD, to the Rock of Israel.
Isaiah	30:30	And the LORD will cause his majestic voice to be heard and the descending blow of his arm to be seen, in furious anger and a flame of devouring fire, with a cloudburst and storm and hailstones.
Isaiah	30:31	The Assyrians will be terror-stricken at the voice of the LORD, when he strikes with his rod.
Isaiah	30:32	And every stroke of the appointed staff that the LORD lays on them will be to the sound of tambourines and lyres. Battling with brandished arm, he will fight with them.
Isaiah	30:33	For a burning place has long been prepared; indeed, for the king it is made ready, its pyre made deep and wide, with fire and wood in abundance; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.
Isaiah	31:1	Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help and rely on horses, who trust in chariots because they are many and in horsemen because they are very strong, but do not look to the Holy One of Israel or consult the LORD!
Isaiah	31:2	And yet he is wise and brings disaster; he does not call back his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers and against the helpers of those who work iniquity.
Isaiah	31:3	The Egyptians are man, and not God, and their horses are flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD stretches out his hand, the helper will stumble, and he who is helped will fall, and they will all perish together.
Isaiah	31:4	For thus the LORD said to me, "As a lion or a young lion growls over his prey, and when a band of shepherds is called out against him is not terrified by their shouting or daunted at their noise, so the LORD of hosts will come down to fight on Mount Zion and on its hill.
Isaiah	31:5	Like birds hovering, so the LORD of hosts will protect Jerusalem; he will protect and deliver it; he will spare and rescue it."
Isaiah	31:6	Turn to him from whom people have deeply revolted, O children of Israel.
Isaiah	31:7	For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have sinfully made for you.
Isaiah	31:8	"And the Assyrian shall fall by a sword, not of man; and a sword, not of man, shall devour him; and he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be put to forced labor.
Isaiah	31:9	His rock shall pass away in terror, and his officers desert the standard in panic," declares the LORD, whose fire is in Zion, and whose furnace is in Jerusalem.
Isaiah	32:1	Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice.
Isaiah	32:2	Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
Isaiah	32:3	Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention.
Isaiah	32:4	The heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to speak distinctly.
Isaiah	32:5	The fool will no more be called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable.
Isaiah	32:6	For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the LORD, to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
Isaiah	32:7	As for the scoundrel--his devices are evil; he plans wicked schemes to ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right.
Isaiah	32:8	But he who is noble plans noble things, and on noble things he stands.
Isaiah	32:9	Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice; you complacent daughters, give ear to my speech.
Isaiah	32:10	In little more than a year you will shudder, you complacent women; for the grape harvest fails, the fruit harvest will not come.
Isaiah	32:11	Tremble, you women who are at ease, shudder, you complacent ones; strip, and make yourselves bare, and tie sackcloth around your waist.
Isaiah	32:12	Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine,
Isaiah	32:13	for the soil of my people growing up in thorns and briers, yes, for all the joyous houses in the exultant city.
Isaiah	32:14	For the palace is forsaken, the populous city deserted; the hill and the watchtower will become dens forever, a joy of wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks;
Isaiah	32:15	until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is deemed a forest.
Isaiah	32:16	Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
Isaiah	32:17	And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever.
Isaiah	32:18	My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
Isaiah	32:19	And it will hail when the forest falls down, and the city will be utterly laid low.
Isaiah	32:20	Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the donkey range free.
Isaiah	33:1	Ah, you destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you.
Isaiah	33:2	O LORD, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble.
Isaiah	33:3	At the tumultuous noise peoples flee; when you lift yourself up, nations are scattered,
Isaiah	33:4	and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, it is leapt upon.
Isaiah	33:5	The LORD is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness,
Isaiah	33:6	and he will be the stability of your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the fear of the LORD is Zion's treasure.
Isaiah	33:7	Behold, their heroes cry in the streets; the envoys of peace weep bitterly.
Isaiah	33:8	The highways lie waste; the traveler ceases. Covenants are broken; cities are despised; there is no regard for man.
Isaiah	33:9	The land mourns and languishes; Lebanon is confounded and withers away; Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
Isaiah	33:10	"Now I will arise," says the LORD, "now I will lift myself up; now I will be exalted.
Isaiah	33:11	You conceive chaff; you give birth to stubble; your breath is a fire that will consume you.
Isaiah	33:12	And the peoples will be as if burned to lime, like thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire."
Isaiah	33:13	Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge my might.
Isaiah	33:14	The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling has seized the godless: "Who among us can dwell with the consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?"
Isaiah	33:15	He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking on evil,
Isaiah	33:16	he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him; his water will be sure.
Isaiah	33:17	Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty; they will see a land that stretches afar.
Isaiah	33:18	Your heart will muse on the terror: "Where is he who counted, where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers?"
Isaiah	33:19	You will see no more the insolent people, the people of an obscure speech that you cannot comprehend, stammering in a tongue that you cannot understand.
Isaiah	33:20	Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts! Your eyes will see Jerusalem, an untroubled habitation, an immovable tent, whose stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
Isaiah	33:21	But there the LORD in majesty will be for us a place of broad rivers and streams, where no galley with oars can go, nor majestic ship can pass.
Isaiah	33:22	For the LORD is our judge; the LORD is our lawgiver; the LORD is our king; he will save us.
Isaiah	33:23	Your cords hang loose; they cannot hold the mast firm in its place or keep the sail spread out. Then prey and spoil in abundance will be divided; even the lame will take the prey.
Isaiah	33:24	And no inhabitant will say, "I am sick"; the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.
Isaiah	34:1	Draw near, O nations, to hear, and give attention, O peoples! Let the earth hear, and all that fills it; the world, and all that comes from it.
Isaiah	34:2	For the LORD is enraged against all the nations, and furious against all their host; he has devoted them to destruction, has given them over for slaughter.
Isaiah	34:3	Their slain shall be cast out, and the stench of their corpses shall rise; the mountains shall flow with their blood.
Isaiah	34:4	All the host of heaven shall rot away, and the skies roll up like a scroll. All their host shall fall, as leaves fall from the vine, like leaves falling from the fig tree.
Isaiah	34:5	For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens; behold, it descends for judgment upon Edom, upon the people I have devoted to destruction.
Isaiah	34:6	The LORD has a sword; it is sated with blood; it is gorged with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah, a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
Isaiah	34:7	Wild oxen shall fall with them, and young steers with the mighty bulls. Their land shall drink its fill of blood, and their soil shall be gorged with fat.
Isaiah	34:8	For the LORD has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
Isaiah	34:9	And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch, and her soil into sulfur; her land shall become burning pitch.
Isaiah	34:10	Night and day it shall not be quenched; its smoke shall go up forever. From generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it forever and ever.
Isaiah	34:11	But the hawk and the porcupine shall possess it, the owl and the raven shall dwell in it. He shall stretch the line of confusion over it, and the plumb line of emptiness.
Isaiah	34:12	Its nobles--there is no one there to call it a kingdom, and all its princes shall be nothing.
Isaiah	34:13	Thorns shall grow over its strongholds, nettles and thistles in its fortresses. It shall be the haunt of jackals, an abode for ostriches.
Isaiah	34:14	And wild animals shall meet with hyenas; the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; indeed, there the night bird settles and finds for herself a resting place.
Isaiah	34:15	There the owl nests and lays and hatches and gathers her young in her shadow; indeed, there the hawks are gathered, each one with her mate.
Isaiah	34:16	Seek and read from the book of the LORD: Not one of these shall be missing; none shall be without her mate. For the mouth of the LORD has commanded, and his Spirit has gathered them.
Isaiah	34:17	He has cast the lot for them; his hand has portioned it out to them with the line; they shall possess it forever; from generation to generation they shall dwell in it.
Isaiah	35:1	The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad; the desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus;
Isaiah	35:2	it shall blossom abundantly and rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the LORD, the majesty of our God.
Isaiah	35:3	Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees.
Isaiah	35:4	Say to those who have an anxious heart, "Be strong; fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you."
Isaiah	35:5	Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped;
Isaiah	35:6	then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy. For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;
Isaiah	35:7	the burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water; in the haunt of jackals, where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes.
Isaiah	35:8	And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the Way of Holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way; even if they are fools, they shall not go astray.
Isaiah	35:9	No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come up on it; they shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there.
Isaiah	35:10	And the ransomed of the LORD shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isaiah	36:1	In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
Isaiah	36:2	And the king of Assyria sent the Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem, with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isaiah	36:3	And there came out to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
Isaiah	36:4	And the Rabshakeh said to them, "Say to Hezekiah, 'Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On what do you rest this trust of yours?
Isaiah	36:5	Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you have rebelled against me?
Isaiah	36:6	Behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
Isaiah	36:7	But if you say to me, "We trust in the LORD our God," is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, "You shall worship before this altar"?
Isaiah	36:8	Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them.
Isaiah	36:9	How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants, when you trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
Isaiah	36:10	Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The LORD said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it.'"
Isaiah	36:11	Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, "Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall."
Isaiah	36:12	But the Rabshakeh said, "Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine?"
Isaiah	36:13	Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: "Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!
Isaiah	36:14	Thus says the king: 'Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you.
Isaiah	36:15	Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD by saying, "The LORD will surely deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria."
Isaiah	36:16	Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out to me. Then each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will drink the water of his own cistern,
Isaiah	36:17	until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
Isaiah	36:18	Beware lest Hezekiah mislead you by saying, "The LORD will deliver us." Has any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Isaiah	36:19	Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
Isaiah	36:20	Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'"
Isaiah	36:21	But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, "Do not answer him."
Isaiah	36:22	Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of the Rabshakeh.
Isaiah	37:1	As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the LORD.
Isaiah	37:2	And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
Isaiah	37:3	They said to him, "Thus says Hezekiah, 'This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
Isaiah	37:4	It may be that the LORD your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the LORD your God has heard; therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.'"
Isaiah	37:5	When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah,
Isaiah	37:6	Isaiah said to them, "Say to your master, 'Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have reviled me.
Isaiah	37:7	Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.'"
Isaiah	37:8	The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish.
Isaiah	37:9	Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, "He has set out to fight against you." And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
Isaiah	37:10	"Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Isaiah	37:11	Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to destruction. And shall you be delivered?
Isaiah	37:12	Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations that my fathers destroyed, Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar?
Isaiah	37:13	Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?'"
Isaiah	37:14	Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up to the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.
Isaiah	37:15	And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD:
Isaiah	37:16	"O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth.
Isaiah	37:17	Incline your ear, O LORD, and hear; open your eyes, O LORD, and see; and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to mock the living God.
Isaiah	37:18	Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands,
Isaiah	37:19	and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.
Isaiah	37:20	So now, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are the LORD."
Isaiah	37:21	Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria,
Isaiah	37:22	this is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: "'She despises you, she scorns you--the virgin daughter of Zion; she wags her head behind you--the daughter of Jerusalem.
Isaiah	37:23	"'Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes to the heights? Against the Holy One of Israel!
Isaiah	37:24	By your servants you have mocked the Lord, and you have said, With my many chariots I have gone up the heights of the mountains, to the far recesses of Lebanon, to cut down its tallest cedars, its choicest cypresses, to come to its remotest height, its most fruitful forest.
Isaiah	37:25	I dug wells and drank waters, to dry up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt.
Isaiah	37:26	"'Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what now I bring to pass, that you should make fortified cities crash into heaps of ruins,
Isaiah	37:27	while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it is grown.
Isaiah	37:28	"'I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
Isaiah	37:29	Because you have raged against me and your complacency has come to my ears, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the way by which you came.'
Isaiah	37:30	"And this shall be the sign for you: this year you shall eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs from that. Then in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
Isaiah	37:31	And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
Isaiah	37:32	For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.
Isaiah	37:33	"Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow there or come before it with a shield or cast up a siege mound against it.
Isaiah	37:34	By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares the LORD.
Isaiah	37:35	For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David."
Isaiah	37:36	And the angel of the LORD went out and struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
Isaiah	37:37	Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned home and lived at Nineveh.
Isaiah	37:38	And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons, struck him down with the sword. And after they escaped into the land of Ararat, Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.
Isaiah	38:1	In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: Set your house in order, for you shall die, you shall not recover."
Isaiah	38:2	Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD,
Isaiah	38:3	and said, "Please, O LORD, remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
Isaiah	38:4	Then the word of the LORD came to Isaiah:
Isaiah	38:5	"Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life.
Isaiah	38:6	I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and will defend this city.
Isaiah	38:7	"This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that he has promised:
Isaiah	38:8	Behold, I will make the shadow cast by the declining sun on the dial of Ahaz turn back ten steps." So the sun turned back on the dial the ten steps by which it had declined.
Isaiah	38:9	A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
Isaiah	38:10	I said, In the middle of my days I must depart; I am consigned to the gates of Sheol for the rest of my years.
Isaiah	38:11	I said, I shall not see the LORD, the LORD in the land of the living; I shall look on man no more among the inhabitants of the world.
Isaiah	38:12	My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me like a shepherd's tent; like a weaver I have rolled up my life; he cuts me off from the loom; from day to night you bring me to an end;
Isaiah	38:13	I calmed myself until morning; like a lion he breaks all my bones; from day to night you bring me to an end.
Isaiah	38:14	Like a swallow or a crane I chirp; I moan like a dove. My eyes are weary with looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed; be my pledge of safety!
Isaiah	38:15	What shall I say? For he has spoken to me, and he himself has done it. I walk slowly all my years because of the bitterness of my soul.
Isaiah	38:16	O Lord, by these things men live, and in all these is the life of my spirit. Oh restore me to health and make me live!
Isaiah	38:17	Behold, it was for my welfare that I had great bitterness; but in love you have delivered my life from the pit of destruction, for you have cast all my sins behind your back.
Isaiah	38:18	For Sheol does not thank you; death does not praise you; those who go down to the pit do not hope for your faithfulness.
Isaiah	38:19	The living, the living, he thanks you, as I do this day; the father makes known to the children your faithfulness.
Isaiah	38:20	The LORD will save me, and we will play my music on stringed instruments all the days of our lives, at the house of the LORD.
Isaiah	38:21	Now Isaiah had said, "Let them take a cake of figs and apply it to the boil, that he may recover."
Isaiah	38:22	Hezekiah also had said, "What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?"
Isaiah	39:1	At that time Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick and had recovered.
Isaiah	39:2	And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly. And he showed them his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them.
Isaiah	39:3	Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, "What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?" Hezekiah said, "They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon."
Isaiah	39:4	He said, "What have they seen in your house?" Hezekiah answered, "They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them."
Isaiah	39:5	Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:
Isaiah	39:6	Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
Isaiah	39:7	And some of your own sons, who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon."
Isaiah	39:8	Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good." For he thought, "There will be peace and security in my days."
Isaiah	40:1	Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
Isaiah	40:2	Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
Isaiah	40:3	A voice cries: "In the wilderness prepare the way of the LORD; make straight in the desert a highway for our God.
Isaiah	40:4	Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain.
Isaiah	40:5	And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
Isaiah	40:6	A voice says, "Cry!" And I said, "What shall I cry?" All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field.
Isaiah	40:7	The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the LORD blows on it; surely the people are grass.
Isaiah	40:8	The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Isaiah	40:9	Get you up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news; lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news; lift it up, fear not; say to the cities of Judah, "Behold your God!"
Isaiah	40:10	Behold, the Lord GOD comes with might, and his arm rules for him; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
Isaiah	40:11	He will tend his flock like a shepherd; he will gather the lambs in his arms; he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.
Isaiah	40:12	Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance?
Isaiah	40:13	Who has measured the Spirit of the LORD, or what man shows him his counsel?
Isaiah	40:14	Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
Isaiah	40:15	Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as the dust on the scales; behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust.
Isaiah	40:16	Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
Isaiah	40:17	All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness.
Isaiah	40:18	To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him?
Isaiah	40:19	An idol! A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains.
Isaiah	40:20	He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot; he seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move.
Isaiah	40:21	Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth?
Isaiah	40:22	It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in;
Isaiah	40:23	who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness.
Isaiah	40:24	Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble.
Isaiah	40:25	To whom then will you compare me, that I should be like him? says the Holy One.
Isaiah	40:26	Lift up your eyes on high and see: who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power not one is missing.
Isaiah	40:27	Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, "My way is hidden from the LORD, and my right is disregarded by my God"?
Isaiah	40:28	Have you not known? Have you not heard? The LORD is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary; his understanding is unsearchable.
Isaiah	40:29	He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength.
Isaiah	40:30	Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted;
Isaiah	40:31	but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.
Isaiah	41:1	Listen to me in silence, O coastlands; let the peoples renew their strength; let them approach, then let them speak; let us together draw near for judgment.
Isaiah	41:2	Who stirred up one from the east whom victory meets at every step? He gives up nations before him, so that he tramples kings underfoot; he makes them like dust with his sword, like driven stubble with his bow.
Isaiah	41:3	He pursues them and passes on safely, by paths his feet have not trod.
Isaiah	41:4	Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.
Isaiah	41:5	The coastlands have seen and are afraid; the ends of the earth tremble; they have drawn near and come.
Isaiah	41:6	Everyone helps his neighbor and says to his brother, "Be strong!"
Isaiah	41:7	The craftsman strengthens the goldsmith, and he who smooths with the hammer him who strikes the anvil, saying of the soldering, "It is good"; and they strengthen it with nails so that it cannot be moved.
Isaiah	41:8	But you, Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of Abraham, my friend;
Isaiah	41:9	you whom I took from the ends of the earth, and called from its farthest corners, saying to you, "You are my servant, I have chosen you and not cast you off";
Isaiah	41:10	fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.
Isaiah	41:11	Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded; those who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish.
Isaiah	41:12	You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them; those who war against you shall be as nothing at all.
Isaiah	41:13	For I, the LORD your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, "Fear not, I am the one who helps you."
Isaiah	41:14	Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel! I am the one who helps you, declares the LORD; your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	41:15	Behold, I make of you a threshing sledge, new, sharp, and having teeth; you shall thresh the mountains and crush them, and you shall make the hills like chaff;
Isaiah	41:16	you shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the tempest shall scatter them. And you shall rejoice in the LORD; in the Holy One of Israel you shall glory.
Isaiah	41:17	When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst, I the LORD will answer them; I the God of Israel will not forsake them.
Isaiah	41:18	I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
Isaiah	41:19	I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the olive. I will set in the desert the cypress, the plane and the pine together,
Isaiah	41:20	that they may see and know, may consider and understand together, that the hand of the LORD has done this, the Holy One of Israel has created it.
Isaiah	41:21	Set forth your case, says the LORD; bring your proofs, says the King of Jacob.
Isaiah	41:22	Let them bring them, and tell us what is to happen. Tell us the former things, what they are, that we may consider them, that we may know their outcome; or declare to us the things to come.
Isaiah	41:23	Tell us what is to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods; do good, or do harm, that we may be dismayed and terrified.
Isaiah	41:24	Behold, you are nothing, and your work is less than nothing; an abomination is he who chooses you.
Isaiah	41:25	I stirred up one from the north, and he has come, from the rising of the sun, and he shall call upon my name; he shall trample on rulers as on mortar, as the potter treads clay.
Isaiah	41:26	Who declared it from the beginning, that we might know, and beforehand, that we might say, "He is right"? There was none who declared it, none who proclaimed, none who heard your words.
Isaiah	41:27	I was the first to say to Zion, "Behold, here they are!" and I give to Jerusalem a herald of good news.
Isaiah	41:28	But when I look there is no one; among these there is no counselor who, when I ask, gives an answer.
Isaiah	41:29	Behold, they are all a delusion; their works are nothing; their metal images are empty wind.
Isaiah	42:1	Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the nations.
Isaiah	42:2	He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street;
Isaiah	42:3	a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring forth justice.
Isaiah	42:4	He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth; and the coastlands wait for his law.
Isaiah	42:5	Thus says God, the LORD, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it:
Isaiah	42:6	"I am the LORD; I have called you in righteousness; I will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations,
Isaiah	42:7	to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness.
Isaiah	42:8	I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.
Isaiah	42:9	Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them."
Isaiah	42:10	Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants.
Isaiah	42:11	Let the desert and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits; let the habitants of Sela sing for joy, let them shout from the top of the mountains.
Isaiah	42:12	Let them give glory to the LORD, and declare his praise in the coastlands.
Isaiah	42:13	The LORD goes out like a mighty man, like a man of war he stirs up his zeal; he cries out, he shouts aloud, he shows himself mighty against his foes.
Isaiah	42:14	For a long time I have held my peace; I have kept still and restrained myself; now I will cry out like a woman in labor; I will gasp and pant.
Isaiah	42:15	I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their vegetation; I will turn the rivers into islands, and dry up the pools.
Isaiah	42:16	And I will lead the blind in a way that they do not know, in paths that they have not known I will guide them. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them.
Isaiah	42:17	They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, "You are our gods."
Isaiah	42:18	Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may see!
Isaiah	42:19	Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated one, or blind as the servant of the LORD?
Isaiah	42:20	He sees many things, but does not observe them; his ears are open, but he does not hear.
Isaiah	42:21	The LORD was pleased, for his righteousness' sake, to magnify his law and make it glorious.
Isaiah	42:22	But this is a people plundered and looted; they are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons; they have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, "Restore!"
Isaiah	42:23	Who among you will give ear to this, will attend and listen for the time to come?
Isaiah	42:24	Who gave up Jacob to the looter, and Israel to the plunderers? Was it not the LORD, against whom we have sinned, in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey?
Isaiah	42:25	So he poured on him the heat of his anger and the might of battle; it set him on fire all around, but he did not understand; it burned him up, but he did not take it to heart.
Isaiah	43:1	But now thus says the LORD, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: "Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine.
Isaiah	43:2	When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you.
Isaiah	43:3	For I am the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you.
Isaiah	43:4	Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life.
Isaiah	43:5	Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your offspring from the east, and from the west I will gather you.
Isaiah	43:6	I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not withhold; bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the earth,
Isaiah	43:7	everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made."
Isaiah	43:8	Bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes, who are deaf, yet have ears!
Isaiah	43:9	All the nations gather together, and the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this, and show us the former things? Let them bring their witnesses to prove them right, and let them hear and say, It is true.
Isaiah	43:10	"You are my witnesses," declares the LORD, "and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me.
Isaiah	43:11	I, I am the LORD, and besides me there is no savior.
Isaiah	43:12	I declared and saved and proclaimed, when there was no strange god among you; and you are my witnesses," declares the LORD, "and I am God.
Isaiah	43:13	Also henceforth I am he; there is none who can deliver from my hand; I work, and who can turn it back?"
Isaiah	43:14	Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: "For your sake I send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice.
Isaiah	43:15	I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King."
Isaiah	43:16	Thus says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters,
Isaiah	43:17	who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior; they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick:
Isaiah	43:18	"Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old.
Isaiah	43:19	Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.
Isaiah	43:20	The wild beasts will honor me, the jackals and the ostriches, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people,
Isaiah	43:21	the people whom I formed for myself that they might declare my praise.
Isaiah	43:22	"Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of me, O Israel!
Isaiah	43:23	You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings, or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense.
Isaiah	43:24	You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities.
Isaiah	43:25	"I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins.
Isaiah	43:26	Put me in remembrance; let us argue together; set forth your case, that you may be proved right.
Isaiah	43:27	Your first father sinned, and your mediators transgressed against me.
Isaiah	43:28	Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary, and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling.
Isaiah	44:1	"But now hear, O Jacob my servant, Israel whom I have chosen!
Isaiah	44:2	Thus says the LORD who made you, who formed you from the womb and will help you: Fear not, O Jacob my servant, Jeshurun whom I have chosen.
Isaiah	44:3	For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants.
Isaiah	44:4	They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams.
Isaiah	44:5	This one will say, 'I am the LORD's,' another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on his hand, 'The LORD's,' and name himself by the name of Israel."
Isaiah	44:6	Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: "I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god.
Isaiah	44:7	Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come, and what will happen.
Isaiah	44:8	Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is there a God besides me? There is no Rock; I know not any."
Isaiah	44:9	All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame.
Isaiah	44:10	Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing?
Isaiah	44:11	Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together.
Isaiah	44:12	The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint.
Isaiah	44:13	The carpenter stretches a line; he marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes and marks it with a compass. He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house.
Isaiah	44:14	He cuts down cedars, or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it.
Isaiah	44:15	Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and warms himself; he kindles a fire and bakes bread. Also he makes a god and worships it; he makes it an idol and falls down before it.
Isaiah	44:16	Half of it he burns in the fire. Over the half he eats meat; he roasts it and is satisfied. Also he warms himself and says, "Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire!"
Isaiah	44:17	And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and says, "Deliver me, for you are my god!"
Isaiah	44:18	They know not, nor do they discern, for he has shut their eyes, so that they cannot see, and their hearts, so that they cannot understand.
Isaiah	44:19	No one considers, nor is there knowledge or discernment to say, "Half of it I burned in the fire; I also baked bread on its coals; I roasted meat and have eaten. And shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood?"
Isaiah	44:20	He feeds on ashes; a deluded heart has led him astray, and he cannot deliver himself or say, "Is there not a lie in my right hand?"
Isaiah	44:21	Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for you are my servant; I formed you; you are my servant; O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.
Isaiah	44:22	I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist; return to me, for I have redeemed you.
Isaiah	44:23	Sing, O heavens, for the LORD has done it; shout, O depths of the earth; break forth into singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it! For the LORD has redeemed Jacob, and will be glorified in Israel.
Isaiah	44:24	Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb: "I am the LORD, who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself,
Isaiah	44:25	who frustrates the signs of liars and makes fools of diviners, who turns wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish,
Isaiah	44:26	who confirms the word of his servant and fulfills the counsel of his messengers, who says of Jerusalem, 'She shall be inhabited,' and of the cities of Judah, 'They shall be built, and I will raise up their ruins';
Isaiah	44:27	who says to the deep, 'Be dry; I will dry up your rivers';
Isaiah	44:28	who says of Cyrus, 'He is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose'; saying of Jerusalem, 'She shall be built,' and of the temple, 'Your foundation shall be laid.'"
Isaiah	45:1	Thus says the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped, to subdue nations before him and to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates may not be closed:
Isaiah	45:2	"I will go before you and level the exalted places, I will break in pieces the doors of bronze and cut through the bars of iron,
Isaiah	45:3	I will give you the treasures of darkness and the hoards in secret places, that you may know that it is I, the LORD, the God of Israel, who call you by your name.
Isaiah	45:4	For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I call you by your name, I name you, though you do not know me.
Isaiah	45:5	I am the LORD, and there is no other, besides me there is no God; I equip you, though you do not know me,
Isaiah	45:6	that people may know, from the rising of the sun and from the west, that there is none besides me; I am the LORD, and there is no other.
Isaiah	45:7	I form light and create darkness, I make well-being and create calamity, I am the LORD, who does all these things.
Isaiah	45:8	"Shower, O heavens, from above, and let the clouds rain down righteousness; let the earth open, that salvation and righteousness may bear fruit; let the earth cause them both to sprout; I the LORD have created it.
Isaiah	45:9	"Woe to him who strives with him who formed him, a pot among earthen pots! Does the clay say to him who forms it, 'What are you making?' or 'Your work has no handles'?
Isaiah	45:10	Woe to him who says to a father, 'What are you begetting?' or to a woman, 'With what are you in labor?'"
Isaiah	45:11	Thus says the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and the one who formed him: "Ask me of things to come; will you command me concerning my children and the work of my hands?
Isaiah	45:12	I made the earth and created man on it; it was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host.
Isaiah	45:13	I have stirred him up in righteousness, and I will make all his ways level; he shall build my city and set my exiles free, not for price or reward," says the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah	45:14	Thus says the LORD: "The wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush, and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over to you and be yours; they shall follow you; they shall come over in chains and bow down to you. They will plead with you, saying: 'Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no god besides him.'"
Isaiah	45:15	Truly, you are a God who hides yourself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
Isaiah	45:16	All of them are put to shame and confounded; the makers of idols go in confusion together.
Isaiah	45:17	But Israel is saved by the LORD with everlasting salvation; you shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity.
Isaiah	45:18	For thus says the LORD, who created the heavens (he is God!), who formed the earth and made it (he established it; he did not create it empty, he formed it to be inhabited!): "I am the LORD, and there is no other.
Isaiah	45:19	I did not speak in secret, in a land of darkness; I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, 'Seek me in vain.' I the LORD speak the truth; I declare what is right.
Isaiah	45:20	"Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, you survivors of the nations! They have no knowledge who carry about their wooden idols, and keep on praying to a god that cannot save.
Isaiah	45:21	Declare and present your case; let them take counsel together! Who told this long ago? Who declared it of old? Was it not I, the LORD? And there is no other god besides me, a righteous God and a Savior; there is none besides me.
Isaiah	45:22	"Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other.
Isaiah	45:23	By myself I have sworn; from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: 'To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance.'
Isaiah	45:24	"Only in the LORD, it shall be said of me, are righteousness and strength; to him shall come and be ashamed all who were incensed against him.
Isaiah	45:25	In the LORD all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory."
Isaiah	46:1	Bel bows down; Nebo stoops; their idols are on beasts and livestock; these things you carry are borne as burdens on weary beasts.
Isaiah	46:2	They stoop; they bow down together; they cannot save the burden, but themselves go into captivity.
Isaiah	46:3	"Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been borne by me from before your birth, carried from the womb;
Isaiah	46:4	even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save.
Isaiah	46:5	"To whom will you liken me and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be alike?
Isaiah	46:6	Those who lavish gold from the purse, and weigh out silver in the scales, hire a goldsmith, and he makes it into a god; then they fall down and worship!
Isaiah	46:7	They lift it to their shoulders, they carry it, they set it in its place, and it stands there; it cannot move from its place. If one cries to it, it does not answer or save him from his trouble.
Isaiah	46:8	"Remember this and stand firm, recall it to mind, you transgressors,
Isaiah	46:9	remember the former things of old; for I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is none like me,
Isaiah	46:10	declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, 'My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,'
Isaiah	46:11	calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass; I have purposed, and I will do it.
Isaiah	46:12	"Listen to me, you stubborn of heart, you who are far from righteousness:
Isaiah	46:13	I bring near my righteousness; it is not far off, and my salvation will not delay; I will put salvation in Zion, for Israel my glory."
Isaiah	47:1	Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
Isaiah	47:2	Take the millstones and grind flour, put off your veil, strip off your robe, uncover your legs, pass through the rivers.
Isaiah	47:3	Your nakedness shall be uncovered, and your disgrace shall be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will spare no one.
Isaiah	47:4	Our Redeemer--the LORD of hosts is his name--is the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	47:5	Sit in silence, and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called the mistress of kingdoms.
Isaiah	47:6	I was angry with my people; I profaned my heritage; I gave them into your hand; you showed them no mercy; on the aged you made your yoke exceedingly heavy.
Isaiah	47:7	You said, "I shall be mistress forever," so that you did not lay these things to heart or remember their end.
Isaiah	47:8	Now therefore hear this, you lover of pleasures, who sit securely, who say in your heart, "I am, and there is no one besides me; I shall not sit as a widow or know the loss of children":
Isaiah	47:9	These two things shall come to you in a moment, in one day; the loss of children and widowhood shall come upon you in full measure, in spite of your many sorceries and the great power of your enchantments.
Isaiah	47:10	You felt secure in your wickedness, you said, "No one sees me"; your wisdom and your knowledge led you astray, and you said in your heart, "I am, and there is no one besides me."
Isaiah	47:11	But evil shall come upon you, which you will not know how to charm away; disaster shall fall upon you, for which you will not be able to atone; and ruin shall come upon you suddenly, of which you know nothing.
Isaiah	47:12	Stand fast in your enchantments and your many sorceries, with which you have labored from your youth; perhaps you may be able to succeed; perhaps you may inspire terror.
Isaiah	47:13	You are wearied with your many counsels; let them stand forth and save you, those who divide the heavens, who gaze at the stars, who at the new moons make known what shall come upon you.
Isaiah	47:14	Behold, they are like stubble; the fire consumes them; they cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame. No coal for warming oneself is this, no fire to sit before!
Isaiah	47:15	Such to you are those with whom you have labored, who have done business with you from your youth; they wander about each in his own direction; there is no one to save you.
Isaiah	48:1	Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and who came from the waters of Judah, who swear by the name of the LORD and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right.
Isaiah	48:2	For they call themselves after the holy city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Isaiah	48:3	"The former things I declared of old; they went out from my mouth and I announced them; then suddenly I did them and they came to pass.
Isaiah	48:4	Because I know that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew and your forehead brass,
Isaiah	48:5	I declared them to you from of old, before they came to pass I announced them to you, lest you should say, 'My idol did them, my carved image and my metal image commanded them.'
Isaiah	48:6	"You have heard; now see all this; and will you not declare it? From this time forth I announce to you new things, hidden things that you have not known.
Isaiah	48:7	They are created now, not long ago; before today you have never heard of them, lest you should say, 'Behold, I knew them.'
Isaiah	48:8	You have never heard, you have never known, from of old your ear has not been opened. For I knew that you would surely deal treacherously, and that from before birth you were called a rebel.
Isaiah	48:9	"For my name's sake I defer my anger, for the sake of my praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut you off.
Isaiah	48:10	Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have tried you in the furnace of affliction.
Isaiah	48:11	For my own sake, for my own sake, I do it, for how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another.
Isaiah	48:12	"Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called! I am he; I am the first, and I am the last.
Isaiah	48:13	My hand laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens; when I call to them, they stand forth together.
Isaiah	48:14	"Assemble, all of you, and listen! who among them has declared these things? The LORD loves him; he shall perform his purpose on Babylon, and his arm shall be against the Chaldeans.
Isaiah	48:15	I, even I, have spoken and called him; I have brought him, and he will prosper in his way.
Isaiah	48:16	Draw near to me, hear this: from the beginning I have not spoken in secret, from the time it came to be I have been there." And now the Lord GOD has sent me, and his Spirit.
Isaiah	48:17	Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: "I am the LORD your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go.
Isaiah	48:18	Oh that you had paid attention to my commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea;
Isaiah	48:19	your offspring would have been like the sand, and your descendants like its grains; their name would never be cut off or destroyed from before me."
Isaiah	48:20	Go out from Babylon, flee from Chaldea, declare this with a shout of joy, proclaim it, send it out to the end of the earth; say, "The LORD has redeemed his servant Jacob!"
Isaiah	48:21	They did not thirst when he led them through the deserts; he made water flow for them from the rock; he split the rock and the water gushed out.
Isaiah	48:22	"There is no peace," says the LORD, "for the wicked."
Isaiah	49:1	Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. The LORD called me from the womb, from the body of my mother he named my name.
Isaiah	49:2	He made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand he hid me; he made me a polished arrow; in his quiver he hid me away.
Isaiah	49:3	And he said to me, "You are my servant, Israel, in whom I will be glorified."
Isaiah	49:4	But I said, "I have labored in vain; I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely my right is with the LORD, and my recompense with my God."
Isaiah	49:5	And now the LORD says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him; and that Israel might be gathered to him--for I am honored in the eyes of the LORD, and my God has become my strength--
Isaiah	49:6	he says: "It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel; I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth."
Isaiah	49:7	Thus says the LORD, the Redeemer of Israel and his Holy One, to one deeply despised, abhorred by the nation, the servant of rulers: "Kings shall see and arise; princes, and they shall prostrate themselves; because of the LORD, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you."
Isaiah	49:8	Thus says the LORD: "In a time of favor I have answered you; in a day of salvation I have helped you; I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, to establish the land, to apportion the desolate heritages,
Isaiah	49:9	saying to the prisoners, 'Come out,' to those who are in darkness, 'Appear.' They shall feed along the ways; on all bare heights shall be their pasture;
Isaiah	49:10	they shall not hunger or thirst, neither scorching wind nor sun shall strike them, for he who has pity on them will lead them, and by springs of water will guide them.
Isaiah	49:11	And I will make all my mountains a road, and my highways shall be raised up.
Isaiah	49:12	Behold, these shall come from afar, and behold, these from the north and from the west, and these from the land of Syene."
Isaiah	49:13	Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth; break forth, O mountains, into singing! for the LORD has comforted his people and will have compassion on his afflicted.
Isaiah	49:14	But Zion said, "The LORD has forsaken me; my Lord has forgotten me."
Isaiah	49:15	"Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.
Isaiah	49:16	Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
Isaiah	49:17	Your builders make haste; your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you.
Isaiah	49:18	Lift up your eyes around and see; they all gather, they come to you. As I live, declares the LORD, you shall put them all on as an ornament; you shall bind them on as a bride does.
Isaiah	49:19	"Surely your waste and your desolate places and your devastated land--surely now you will be too narrow for your inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up will be far away.
Isaiah	49:20	The children of your bereavement will yet say in your ears: 'The place is too narrow for me; make room for me to dwell in.'
Isaiah	49:21	Then you will say in your heart: 'Who has borne me these? I was bereaved and barren, exiled and put away, but who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; from where have these come?'"
Isaiah	49:22	Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and raise my signal to the peoples; and they shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
Isaiah	49:23	Kings shall be your foster fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers. With their faces to the ground they shall bow down to you, and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am the LORD; those who wait for me shall not be put to shame."
Isaiah	49:24	Can the prey be taken from the mighty, or the captives of a tyrant be rescued?
Isaiah	49:25	For thus says the LORD: "Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be rescued, for I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children.
Isaiah	49:26	I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh, and they shall be drunk with their own blood as with wine. Then all flesh shall know that I am the LORD your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob."
Isaiah	50:1	Thus says the LORD: "Where is your mother's certificate of divorce, with which I sent her away? Or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities you were sold, and for your transgressions your mother was sent away.
Isaiah	50:2	Why, when I came, was there no man; why, when I called, was there no one to answer? Is my hand shortened, that it cannot redeem? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, by my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a desert; their fish stink for lack of water and die of thirst.
Isaiah	50:3	I clothe the heavens with blackness and make sackcloth their covering."
Isaiah	50:4	The Lord GOD has given me the tongue of those who are taught, that I may know how to sustain with a word him who is weary. Morning by morning he awakens; he awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught.
Isaiah	50:5	The Lord GOD has opened my ear, and I was not rebellious; I turned not backward.
Isaiah	50:6	I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard; I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting.
Isaiah	50:7	But the Lord GOD helps me; therefore I have not been disgraced; therefore I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame.
Isaiah	50:8	He who vindicates me is near. Who will contend with me? Let us stand up together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me.
Isaiah	50:9	Behold, the Lord GOD helps me; who will declare me guilty? Behold, all of them will wear out like a garment; the moth will eat them up.
Isaiah	50:10	Who among you fears the LORD and obeys the voice of his servant? Let him who walks in darkness and has no light trust in the name of the LORD and rely on his God.
Isaiah	50:11	Behold, all you who kindle a fire, who equip yourselves with burning torches! Walk by the light of your fire, and by the torches that you have kindled! This you have from my hand: you shall lie down in torment.
Isaiah	51:1	"Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the LORD: look to the rock from which you were hewn, and to the quarry from which you were dug.
Isaiah	51:2	Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you; for he was but one when I called him, that I might bless him and multiply him.
Isaiah	51:3	For the LORD comforts Zion; he comforts all her waste places and makes her wilderness like Eden, her desert like the garden of the LORD; joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song.
Isaiah	51:4	"Give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation; for a law will go out from me, and I will set my justice for a light to the peoples.
Isaiah	51:5	My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples; the coastlands hope for me, and for my arm they wait.
Isaiah	51:6	Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look at the earth beneath; for the heavens vanish like smoke, the earth will wear out like a garment, and they who dwell in it will die in like manner; but my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will never be dismayed.
Isaiah	51:7	"Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings.
Isaiah	51:8	For the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool; but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations."
Isaiah	51:9	Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the LORD; awake, as in days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, that pierced the dragon?
Isaiah	51:10	Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over?
Isaiah	51:11	And the ransomed of the LORD shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isaiah	51:12	"I, I am he who comforts you; who are you that you are afraid of man who dies, of the son of man who is made like grass,
Isaiah	51:13	and have forgotten the LORD, your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth, and you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor, when he sets himself to destroy? And where is the wrath of the oppressor?
Isaiah	51:14	He who is bowed down shall speedily be released; he shall not die and go down to the pit, neither shall his bread be lacking.
Isaiah	51:15	I am the LORD your God, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar--the LORD of hosts is his name.
Isaiah	51:16	And I have put my words in your mouth and covered you in the shadow of my hand, establishing the heavens and laying the foundations of the earth, and saying to Zion, 'You are my people.'"
Isaiah	51:17	Wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the LORD the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs the bowl, the cup of staggering.
Isaiah	51:18	There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne; there is none to take her by the hand among all the sons she has brought up.
Isaiah	51:19	These two things have happened to you--who will console you?--devastation and destruction, famine and sword; who will comfort you?
Isaiah	51:20	Your sons have fainted; they lie at the head of every street like an antelope in a net; they are full of the wrath of the LORD, the rebuke of your God.
Isaiah	51:21	Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk, but not with wine:
Isaiah	51:22	Thus says your Lord, the LORD, your God who pleads the cause of his people: "Behold, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering; the bowl of my wrath you shall drink no more;
Isaiah	51:23	and I will put it into the hand of your tormentors, who have said to you, 'Bow down, that we may pass over'; and you have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over."
Isaiah	52:1	Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion; put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean.
Isaiah	52:2	Shake yourself from the dust and arise; be seated, O Jerusalem; loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
Isaiah	52:3	For thus says the LORD: "You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money."
Isaiah	52:4	For thus says the Lord GOD: "My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing.
Isaiah	52:5	Now therefore what have I here," declares the LORD, "seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Their rulers wail," declares the LORD, "and continually all the day my name is despised.
Isaiah	52:6	Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore in that day they shall know that it is I who speak; here am I."
Isaiah	52:7	How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, "Your God reigns."
Isaiah	52:8	The voice of your watchmen--they lift up their voice; together they sing for joy; for eye to eye they see the return of the LORD to Zion.
Isaiah	52:9	Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the LORD has comforted his people; he has redeemed Jerusalem.
Isaiah	52:10	The LORD has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
Isaiah	52:11	Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the LORD.
Isaiah	52:12	For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go in flight, for the LORD will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
Isaiah	52:13	Behold, my servant shall act wisely; he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted.
Isaiah	52:14	As many were astonished at you--his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind--
Isaiah	52:15	so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand.
Isaiah	53:1	Who has believed what they heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed?
Isaiah	53:2	For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground; he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him.
Isaiah	53:3	He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
Isaiah	53:4	Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted.
Isaiah	53:5	But he was wounded for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed.
Isaiah	53:6	All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
Isaiah	53:7	He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth.
Isaiah	53:8	By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people?
Isaiah	53:9	And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth.
Isaiah	53:10	Yet it was the will of the LORD to crush him; he has put him to grief; when his soul makes an offering for sin, he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days; the will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.
Isaiah	53:11	Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied; by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities.
Isaiah	53:12	Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors.
Isaiah	54:1	"Sing, O barren one, who did not bear; break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married," says the LORD.
Isaiah	54:2	"Enlarge the place of your tent, and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out; do not hold back; lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes.
Isaiah	54:3	For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities.
Isaiah	54:4	"Fear not, for you will not be ashamed; be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced; for you will forget the shame of your youth, and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more.
Isaiah	54:5	For your Maker is your husband, the LORD of hosts is his name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole earth he is called.
Isaiah	54:6	For the LORD has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God.
Isaiah	54:7	For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you.
Isaiah	54:8	In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have compassion on you," says the LORD, your Redeemer.
Isaiah	54:9	"This is like the days of Noah to me: as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, and will not rebuke you.
Isaiah	54:10	For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed," says the LORD, who has compassion on you.
Isaiah	54:11	"O afflicted one, storm-tossed and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in antimony, and lay your foundations with sapphires.
Isaiah	54:12	I will make your pinnacles of agate, your gates of carbuncles, and all your wall of precious stones.
Isaiah	54:13	All your children shall be taught by the LORD, and great shall be the peace of your children.
Isaiah	54:14	In righteousness you shall be established; you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near you.
Isaiah	54:15	If anyone stirs up strife, it is not from me; whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you.
Isaiah	54:16	Behold, I have created the smith who blows the fire of coals and produces a weapon for its purpose. I have also created the ravager to destroy;
Isaiah	54:17	no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and you shall confute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD and their vindication from me, declares the LORD."
Isaiah	55:1	"Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
Isaiah	55:2	Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food.
Isaiah	55:3	Incline your ear, and come to me; hear, that your soul may live; and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David.
Isaiah	55:4	Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples.
Isaiah	55:5	Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you, because of the LORD your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you.
Isaiah	55:6	"Seek the LORD while he may be found; call upon him while he is near;
Isaiah	55:7	let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the LORD, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
Isaiah	55:8	For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the LORD.
Isaiah	55:9	For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.
Isaiah	55:10	"For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater,
Isaiah	55:11	so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it.
Isaiah	55:12	"For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace; the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.
Isaiah	55:13	Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress; instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle; and it shall make a name for the LORD, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off."
Isaiah	56:1	Thus says the LORD: "Keep justice, and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my deliverance be revealed.
Isaiah	56:2	Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil."
Isaiah	56:3	Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the LORD say, "The LORD will surely separate me from his people"; and let not the eunuch say, "Behold, I am a dry tree."
Isaiah	56:4	For thus says the LORD: "To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant,
Isaiah	56:5	I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters; I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off.
Isaiah	56:6	"And the foreigners who join themselves to the LORD, to minister to him, to love the name of the LORD, and to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my covenant--
Isaiah	56:7	these I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer; their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples."
Isaiah	56:8	The Lord GOD, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, declares, "I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered."
Isaiah	56:9	All you beasts of the field, come to devour--all you beasts in the forest.
Isaiah	56:10	His watchmen are blind; they are all without knowledge; they are all silent dogs; they cannot bark, dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.
Isaiah	56:11	The dogs have a mighty appetite; they never have enough. But they are shepherds who have no understanding; they have all turned to their own way, each to his own gain, one and all.
Isaiah	56:12	"Come," they say, "let me get wine; let us fill ourselves with strong drink; and tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure."
Isaiah	57:1	The righteous man perishes, and no one lays it to heart; devout men are taken away, while no one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity;
Isaiah	57:2	he enters into peace; they rest in their beds who walk in their uprightness.
Isaiah	57:3	But you, draw near, sons of the sorceress, offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman.
Isaiah	57:4	Whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, the offspring of deceit,
Isaiah	57:5	you who burn with lust among the oaks, under every green tree, who slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
Isaiah	57:6	Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they, are your lot; to them you have poured out a drink offering, you have brought a grain offering. Shall I relent for these things?
Isaiah	57:7	On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice.
Isaiah	57:8	Behind the door and the doorpost you have set up your memorial; for, deserting me, you have uncovered your bed, you have gone up to it, you have made it wide; and you have made a covenant for yourself with them, you have loved their bed, you have looked on nakedness.
Isaiah	57:9	You journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes; you sent your envoys far off, and sent down even to Sheol.
Isaiah	57:10	You were wearied with the length of your way, but you did not say, "It is hopeless"; you found new life for your strength, and so you were not faint.
Isaiah	57:11	Whom did you dread and fear, so that you lied, and did not remember me, did not lay it to heart? Have I not held my peace, even for a long time, and you do not fear me?
Isaiah	57:12	I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you.
Isaiah	57:13	When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you! The wind will carry them off, a breath will take them away. But he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land and shall inherit my holy mountain.
Isaiah	57:14	And it shall be said, "Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from my people's way."
Isaiah	57:15	For thus says the One who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy: "I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
Isaiah	57:16	For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made.
Isaiah	57:17	Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.
Isaiah	57:18	I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners,
Isaiah	57:19	creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace, to the far and to the near," says the LORD, "and I will heal him.
Isaiah	57:20	But the wicked are like the tossing sea; for it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt.
Isaiah	57:21	There is no peace," says my God, "for the wicked."
Isaiah	58:1	"Cry aloud; do not hold back; lift up your voice like a trumpet; declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins.
Isaiah	58:2	Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the judgment of their God; they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near to God.
Isaiah	58:3	'Why have we fasted, and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it?' Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers.
Isaiah	58:4	Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high.
Isaiah	58:5	Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the LORD?
Isaiah	58:6	"Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?
Isaiah	58:7	Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?
Isaiah	58:8	Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily; your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the LORD shall be your rear guard.
Isaiah	58:9	Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, 'Here I am.' If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness,
Isaiah	58:10	if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday.
Isaiah	58:11	And the LORD will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.
Isaiah	58:12	And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt; you shall raise up the foundations of many generations; you shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in.
Isaiah	58:13	"If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the LORD honorable; if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly;
Isaiah	58:14	then you shall take delight in the LORD, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth; I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
Isaiah	59:1	Behold, the LORD's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear;
Isaiah	59:2	but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear.
Isaiah	59:3	For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies; your tongue mutters wickedness.
Isaiah	59:4	No one enters suit justly; no one goes to law honestly; they rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity.
Isaiah	59:5	They hatch adders' eggs; they weave the spider's web; he who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched.
Isaiah	59:6	Their webs will not serve as clothing; men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence are in their hands.
Isaiah	59:7	Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood; their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction are in their highways.
Isaiah	59:8	The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths; they have made their roads crooked; no one who treads on them knows peace.
Isaiah	59:9	Therefore justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us; we hope for light, and behold, darkness, and for brightness, but we walk in gloom.
Isaiah	59:10	We grope for the wall like the blind; we grope like those who have no eyes; we stumble at noon as in the twilight, among those in full vigor we are like dead men.
Isaiah	59:11	We all growl like bears; we moan and moan like doves; we hope for justice, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far from us.
Isaiah	59:12	For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities:
Isaiah	59:13	transgressing, and denying the LORD, and turning back from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words.
Isaiah	59:14	Justice is turned back,and righteousness stands afar off; for truth has stumbled in the public squares,and uprightness cannot enter.
Isaiah	59:15	Truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. The LORD saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice.
Isaiah	59:16	He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede; then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him.
Isaiah	59:17	He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of salvation on his head; he put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak.
Isaiah	59:18	According to their deeds, so will he repay, wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies; to the coastlands he will render repayment.
Isaiah	59:19	So they shall fear the name of the LORD from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he will come like a rushing stream, which the wind of the LORD drives.
Isaiah	59:20	"And a Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression," declares the LORD.
Isaiah	59:21	"And as for me, this is my covenant with them," says the LORD: "My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring," says the LORD, "from this time forth and forevermore."
Isaiah	60:1	Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the LORD has risen upon you.
Isaiah	60:2	For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the LORD will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you.
Isaiah	60:3	And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
Isaiah	60:4	Lift up your eyes all around, and see; they all gather together, they come to you; your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip.
Isaiah	60:5	Then you shall see and be radiant; your heart shall thrill and exult, because the abundance of the sea shall be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you.
Isaiah	60:6	A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young camels of Midian and Ephah; all those from Sheba shall come. They shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall bring good news, the praises of the LORD.
Isaiah	60:7	All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you; the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you; they shall come up with acceptance on my altar, and I will beautify my beautiful house.
Isaiah	60:8	Who are these that fly like a cloud, and like doves to their windows?
Isaiah	60:9	For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your children from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of the LORD your God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has made you beautiful.
Isaiah	60:10	Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you; for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
Isaiah	60:11	Your gates shall be open continually; day and night they shall not be shut, that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations, with their kings led in procession.
Isaiah	60:12	For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; those nations shall be utterly laid waste.
Isaiah	60:13	The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plane, and the pine, to beautify the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
Isaiah	60:14	The sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all who despised you shall bow down at your feet; they shall call you the City of the LORD, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah	60:15	Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, with no one passing through, I will make you majestic forever, a joy from age to age.
Isaiah	60:16	You shall suck the milk of nations; you shall nurse at the breast of kings; and you shall know that I, the LORD, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
Isaiah	60:17	Instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver; instead of wood, bronze, instead of stones, iron. I will make your overseers peace and your taskmasters righteousness.
Isaiah	60:18	Violence shall no more be heard in your land, devastation or destruction within your borders; you shall call your walls Salvation, and your gates Praise.
Isaiah	60:19	The sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light; but the LORD will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory.
Isaiah	60:20	Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself; for the LORD will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended.
Isaiah	60:21	Your people shall all be righteous; they shall possess the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I might be glorified.
Isaiah	60:22	The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation; I am the LORD; in its time I will hasten it.
Isaiah	61:1	The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me, because the LORD has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound;
Isaiah	61:2	to proclaim the year of the LORD's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;
Isaiah	61:3	to grant to those who mourn in Zion--to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he may be glorified.
Isaiah	61:4	They shall build up the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations.
Isaiah	61:5	Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks; foreigners shall be your plowmen and vinedressers;
Isaiah	61:6	but you shall be called the priests of the LORD; they shall speak of you as the ministers of our God; you shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast.
Isaiah	61:7	Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion; instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their lot; therefore in their land they shall possess a double portion; they shall have everlasting joy.
Isaiah	61:8	For I the LORD love justice; I hate robbery and wrong; I will faithfully give them their recompense, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.
Isaiah	61:9	Their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants in the midst of the peoples; all who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are an offspring the LORD has blessed.
Isaiah	61:10	I will greatly rejoice in the LORD; my soul shall exult in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation; he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
Isaiah	61:11	For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations.
Isaiah	62:1	For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet, until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch.
Isaiah	62:2	The nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name that the mouth of the LORD will give.
Isaiah	62:3	You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.
Isaiah	62:4	You shall no more be termed Forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed Desolate, but you shall be called My Delight Is in Her, and your land Married; for the LORD delights in you, and your land shall be married.
Isaiah	62:5	For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you.
Isaiah	62:6	On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen; all the day and all the night they shall never be silent. You who put the LORD in remembrance, take no rest,
Isaiah	62:7	and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth.
Isaiah	62:8	The LORD has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm: "I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies, and foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored;
Isaiah	62:9	but those who garner it shall eat it and praise the LORD, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary."
Isaiah	62:10	Go through, go through the gates; prepare the way for the people; build up, build up the highway; clear it of stones; lift up a signal over the peoples.
Isaiah	62:11	Behold, the LORD has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the daughter of Zion, "Behold, your salvation comes; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him."
Isaiah	62:12	And they shall be called The Holy People, The Redeemed of the LORD; and you shall be called Sought Out, A City Not Forsaken.
Isaiah	63:1	Who is this who comes from Edom, in crimsoned garments from Bozrah, he who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength? "It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save."
Isaiah	63:2	Why is your apparel red, and your garments like his who treads in the winepress?
Isaiah	63:3	"I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with me; I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath; their lifeblood spattered on my garments, and stained all my apparel.
Isaiah	63:4	For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption had come.
Isaiah	63:5	I looked, but there was no one to help; I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold; so my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me.
Isaiah	63:6	I trampled down the peoples in my anger; I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth."
Isaiah	63:7	I will recount the steadfast love of the LORD, the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them according to his compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
Isaiah	63:8	For he said, "Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely." And he became their Savior.
Isaiah	63:9	In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
Isaiah	63:10	But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.
Isaiah	63:11	Then he remembered the days of old, of Moses and his people. Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit,
Isaiah	63:12	who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them to make for himself an everlasting name,
Isaiah	63:13	who led them through the depths? Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble.
Isaiah	63:14	Like livestock that go down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD gave them rest. So you led your people, to make for yourself a glorious name.
Isaiah	63:15	Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation. Where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me.
Isaiah	63:16	For you are our Father, though Abraham does not know us, and Israel does not acknowledge us; you, O LORD, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old is your name.
Isaiah	63:17	O LORD, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart, so that we fear you not? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage.
Isaiah	63:18	Your holy people held possession for a little while; our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary.
Isaiah	63:19	We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name.
Isaiah	64:1	Oh that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence--
Isaiah	64:2	as when fire kindles brushwood and the fire causes water to boil--to make your name known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence!
Isaiah	64:3	When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence.
Isaiah	64:4	From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him.
Isaiah	64:5	You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned; in our sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved?
Isaiah	64:6	We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.
Isaiah	64:7	There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you; for you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities.
Isaiah	64:8	But now, O LORD, you are our Father; we are the clay, and you are our potter; we are all the work of your hand.
Isaiah	64:9	Be not so terribly angry, O LORD, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look, we are all your people.
Isaiah	64:10	Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
Isaiah	64:11	Our holy and beautiful house, where our fathers praised you, has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become ruins.
Isaiah	64:12	Will you restrain yourself at these things, O LORD? Will you keep silent, and afflict us so terribly?
Isaiah	65:1	I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me; I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, "Here am I, here am I," to a nation that was not called by my name.
Isaiah	65:2	I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not good, following their own devices;
Isaiah	65:3	a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks;
Isaiah	65:4	who sit in tombs, and spend the night in secret places; who eat pig's flesh, and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels;
Isaiah	65:5	who say, "Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you." These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day.
Isaiah	65:6	Behold, it is written before me: "I will not keep silent, but I will repay; I will indeed repay into their bosom
Isaiah	65:7	both your iniquities and your fathers' iniquities together, says the LORD; because they made offerings on the mountains and insulted me on the hills, I will measure into their bosom payment for their former deeds."
Isaiah	65:8	Thus says the LORD: "As the new wine is found in the cluster, and they say, 'Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it,' so I will do for my servants' sake, and not destroy them all.
Isaiah	65:9	I will bring forth offspring from Jacob, and from Judah possessors of my mountains; my chosen shall possess it, and my servants shall dwell there.
Isaiah	65:10	Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks, and the Valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down, for my people who have sought me.
Isaiah	65:11	But you who forsake the LORD, who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for Fortune and fill cups of mixed wine for Destiny,
Isaiah	65:12	I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, because, when I called, you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not listen, but you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in."
Isaiah	65:13	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame;
Isaiah	65:14	behold, my servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart and shall wail for breaking of spirit.
Isaiah	65:15	You shall leave your name to my chosen for a curse, and the Lord GOD will put you to death, but his servants he will call by another name.
Isaiah	65:16	So that he who blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth, and he who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden from my eyes.
Isaiah	65:17	"For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind.
Isaiah	65:18	But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness.
Isaiah	65:19	I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people; no more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress.
Isaiah	65:20	No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days, for the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed.
Isaiah	65:21	They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
Isaiah	65:22	They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat; for like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
Isaiah	65:23	They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the LORD, and their descendants with them.
Isaiah	65:24	Before they call I will answer; while they are yet speaking I will hear.
Isaiah	65:25	The wolf and the lamb shall graze together; the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain," says the LORD.
Isaiah	66:1	Thus says the LORD: "Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool; what is the house that you would build for me, and what is the place of my rest?
Isaiah	66:2	All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the LORD. But this is the one to whom I will look: he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word.
Isaiah	66:3	"He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man; he who sacrifices a lamb, like one who breaks a dog's neck; he who presents a grain offering, like one who offers pig's blood; he who makes a memorial offering of frankincense, like one who blesses an idol. These have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations;
Isaiah	66:4	I also will choose harsh treatment for them and bring their fears upon them, because when I called, no one answered, when I spoke they did not listen; but they did what was evil in my eyes and chose that in which I did not delight."
Isaiah	66:5	Hear the word of the LORD, you who tremble at his word: "Your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my name's sake have said, 'Let the LORD be glorified, that we may see your joy'; but it is they who shall be put to shame.
Isaiah	66:6	"The sound of an uproar from the city! A sound from the temple! The sound of the LORD, rendering recompense to his enemies!
Isaiah	66:7	"Before she was in labor she gave birth; before her pain came upon her she delivered a son.
Isaiah	66:8	Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor she brought forth her children.
Isaiah	66:9	Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth?" says the LORD; "shall I, who cause to bring forth, shut the womb?" says your God.
Isaiah	66:10	"Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who love her; rejoice with her in joy, all you who mourn over her;
Isaiah	66:11	that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast; that you may drink deeply with delight from her glorious abundance."
Isaiah	66:12	For thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream; and you shall nurse, you shall be carried upon her hip, and bounced upon her knees.
Isaiah	66:13	As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
Isaiah	66:14	You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice; your bones shall flourish like the grass; and the hand of the LORD shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies.
Isaiah	66:15	"For behold, the LORD will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
Isaiah	66:16	For by fire will the LORD enter into judgment, and by his sword, with all flesh; and those slain by the LORD shall be many.
Isaiah	66:17	"Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice, shall come to an end together, declares the LORD.
Isaiah	66:18	"For I know their works and their thoughts, and the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues. And they shall come and shall see my glory,
Isaiah	66:19	and I will set a sign among them. And from them I will send survivors to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the coastlands afar off, that have not heard my fame or seen my glory. And they shall declare my glory among the nations.
Isaiah	66:20	And they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the LORD, on horses and in chariots and in litters and on mules and on dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the LORD, just as the Israelites bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the LORD.
Isaiah	66:21	And some of them also I will take for priests and for Levites, says the LORD.
Isaiah	66:22	"For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me, says the LORD, so shall your offspring and your name remain.
Isaiah	66:23	From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the LORD.
Isaiah	66:24	"And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For their worm shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh."
Jeremiah	1:1	The words of Jeremiah, the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin,
Jeremiah	1:2	to whom the word of the LORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign.
Jeremiah	1:3	It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, and until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Jeremiah	1:4	Now the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jeremiah	1:5	"Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations."
Jeremiah	1:6	Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth."
Jeremiah	1:7	But the LORD said to me, "Do not say, 'I am only a youth'; for to all to whom I send you, you shall go, and whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Jeremiah	1:8	Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	1:9	Then the LORD put out his hand and touched my mouth. And the LORD said to me, "Behold, I have put my words in your mouth.
Jeremiah	1:10	See, I have set you this day over nations and over kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant."
Jeremiah	1:11	And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "Jeremiah, what do you see?" And I said, "I see an almond branch."
Jeremiah	1:12	Then the LORD said to me, "You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it."
Jeremiah	1:13	The word of the LORD came to me a second time, saying, "What do you see?" And I said, "I see a boiling pot, facing away from the north."
Jeremiah	1:14	Then the LORD said to me, "Out of the north disaster shall be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the land.
Jeremiah	1:15	For behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, declares the LORD, and they shall come, and every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, against all its walls all around and against all the cities of Judah.
Jeremiah	1:16	And I will declare my judgments against them, for all their evil in forsaking me. They have made offerings to other gods and worshiped the works of their own hands.
Jeremiah	1:17	But you, dress yourself for work; arise, and say to them everything that I command you. Do not be dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them.
Jeremiah	1:18	And I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls, against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land.
Jeremiah	1:19	They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you, declares the LORD, to deliver you."
Jeremiah	2:1	The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jeremiah	2:2	"Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, Thus says the LORD, "I remember the devotion of your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness, in a land not sown.
Jeremiah	2:3	Israel was holy to the LORD, the firstfruits of his harvest. All who ate of it incurred guilt; disaster came upon them, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	2:4	Hear the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel.
Jeremiah	2:5	Thus says the LORD: "What wrong did your fathers find in me that they went far from me, and went after worthlessness, and became worthless?
Jeremiah	2:6	They did not say, 'Where is the LORD who brought us up from the land of Egypt, who led us in the wilderness, in a land of deserts and pits, in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes through, where no man dwells?'
Jeremiah	2:7	And I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. But when you came in, you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination.
Jeremiah	2:8	The priests did not say, 'Where is the LORD?' Those who handle the law did not know me; the shepherds transgressed against me; the prophets prophesied by Baal and went after things that do not profit.
Jeremiah	2:9	"Therefore I still contend with you, declares the LORD, and with your children's children I will contend.
Jeremiah	2:10	For cross to the coasts of Cyprus and see, or send to Kedar and examine with care; see if there has been such a thing.
Jeremiah	2:11	Has a nation changed its gods, even though they are no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit.
Jeremiah	2:12	Be appalled, O heavens, at this; be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the LORD,
Jeremiah	2:13	for my people have committed two evils: they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water.
Jeremiah	2:14	"Is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? Why then has he become a prey?
Jeremiah	2:15	The lions have roared against him; they have roared loudly. They have made his land a waste; his cities are in ruins, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah	2:16	Moreover, the men of Memphis and Tahpanhes have shaved the crown of your head.
Jeremiah	2:17	Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the LORD your God, when he led you in the way?
Jeremiah	2:18	And now what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Or what do you gain by going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates?
Jeremiah	2:19	Your evil will chastise you, and your apostasy will reprove you. Know and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the LORD your God; the fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Jeremiah	2:20	"For long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds; but you said, 'I will not serve.' yes, on every high hill and under every green tree you bowed down like a whore.
Jeremiah	2:21	Yet I planted you a choice vine, wholly of pure seed. How then have you turned degenerate and become a wild vine?
Jeremiah	2:22	Though you wash yourself with lye and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord GOD.
Jeremiah	2:23	How can you say, 'I am not unclean, I have not gone after the Baals'? Look at your way in the valley; know what you have done--a restless young camel running here and there,
Jeremiah	2:24	a wild donkey used to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind! Who can restrain her lust? None who seek her need weary themselves; in her month they will find her.
Jeremiah	2:25	Keep your feet from going unshod and your throat from thirst. But you said, 'It is hopeless, for I have loved foreigners, and after them I will go.'
Jeremiah	2:26	"As a thief is shamed when caught, so the house of Israel shall be shamed: they, their kings, their officials, their priests, and their prophets,
Jeremiah	2:27	who say to a tree, 'You are my father,' and to a stone, 'You gave me birth.' For they have turned their back to me, and not their face. But in the time of their trouble they say, 'Arise and save us!'
Jeremiah	2:28	But where are your gods that you made for yourself? Let them arise, if they can save you, in your time of trouble; for as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah.
Jeremiah	2:29	"Why do you contend with me? You have all transgressed against me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	2:30	In vain have I struck your children; they took no correction; your own sword devoured your prophets like a ravening lion.
Jeremiah	2:31	And you, O generation, behold the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, or a land of thick darkness? Why then do my people say, 'We are free, we will come no more to you'?
Jeremiah	2:32	Can a virgin forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without number.
Jeremiah	2:33	"How well you direct your course to seek love! So that even to wicked women you have taught your ways.
Jeremiah	2:34	Also on your skirts is found the lifeblood of the guiltless poor; you did not find them breaking in. Yet in spite of all these things
Jeremiah	2:35	you say, 'I am innocent; surely his anger has turned from me.' Behold, I will bring you to judgment for saying, 'I have not sinned.'
Jeremiah	2:36	How much you go about, changing your way! You shall be put to shame by Egypt as you were put to shame by Assyria.
Jeremiah	2:37	From it too you will come away with your hands on your head, for the LORD has rejected those in whom you trust, and you will not prosper by them.
Jeremiah	3:1	"If a man divorces his wife and she goes from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to her? Would not that land be greatly polluted? You have played the whore with many lovers; and would you return to me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	3:2	Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and see! Where have you not been ravished? By the waysides you have sat awaiting lovers like an Arab in the wilderness. You have polluted the land with your vile whoredom.
Jeremiah	3:3	Therefore the showers have been withheld, and the spring rain has not come; yet you have the forehead of a whore; you refuse to be ashamed.
Jeremiah	3:4	Have you not just now called to me, 'My father, you are the friend of my youth--
Jeremiah	3:5	will he be angry forever, will he be indignant to the end?' Behold, you have spoken, but you have done all the evil that you could."
Jeremiah	3:6	The LORD said to me in the days of King Josiah: "Have you seen what she did, that faithless one, Israel, how she went up on every high hill and under every green tree, and there played the whore?
Jeremiah	3:7	And I thought, 'After she has done all this she will return to me,' but she did not return, and her treacherous sister Judah saw it.
Jeremiah	3:8	She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, I had sent her away with a decree of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she too went and played the whore.
Jeremiah	3:9	Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree.
Jeremiah	3:10	Yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	3:11	And the LORD said to me, "Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah.
Jeremiah	3:12	Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, "'Return, faithless Israel, declares the LORD. I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful, declares the LORD; I will not be angry forever.
Jeremiah	3:13	Only acknowledge your guilt, that you rebelled against the LORD your God and scattered your favors among foreigners under every green tree, and that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	3:14	Return, O faithless children, declares the LORD; for I am your master; I will take you, one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion.
Jeremiah	3:15	"'And I will give you shepherds after my own heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding.
Jeremiah	3:16	And when you have multiplied and increased in the land, in those days, declares the LORD, they shall no more say, "The ark of the covenant of the LORD." It shall not come to mind or be remembered or missed; it shall not be made again.
Jeremiah	3:17	At that time Jerusalem shall be called the throne of the LORD, and all nations shall gather to it, to the presence of the LORD in Jerusalem, and they shall no more stubbornly follow their own evil heart.
Jeremiah	3:18	In those days the house of Judah shall join the house of Israel, and together they shall come from the land of the north to the land that I gave your fathers for a heritage.
Jeremiah	3:19	"'I said How I would set you among my sons, and give you a pleasant land, a heritage most beautiful of all nations. And I thought you would call me, My Father, and would not turn from following me.
Jeremiah	3:20	Surely, as a treacherous wife leaves her husband, so have you been treacherous to me, O house of Israel, declares the LORD.'"
Jeremiah	3:21	A voice on the bare heights is heard, the weeping and pleading of Israel's sons because they have perverted their way; they have forgotten the LORD their God.
Jeremiah	3:22	"Return, O faithless sons; I will heal your faithlessness.Behold, we come to you, for you are the LORD our God.
Jeremiah	3:23	Truly the hills are a delusion, the orgies on the mountains. Truly in the LORD our God is the salvation of Israel.
Jeremiah	3:24	"But from our youth the shameful thing has devoured all for which our fathers labored, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.
Jeremiah	3:25	Let us lie down in our shame, and let our dishonor cover us. For we have sinned against the LORD our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day, and we have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our God."
Jeremiah	4:1	"If you return, O Israel, declares the LORD, to me you should return. If you remove your detestable things from my presence, and do not waver,
Jeremiah	4:2	and if you swear, 'As the LORD lives,' in truth, in justice, and in righteousness, then nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory."
Jeremiah	4:3	For thus says the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem: "Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.
Jeremiah	4:4	Circumcise yourselves to the LORD; remove the foreskin of your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of your deeds."
Jeremiah	4:5	Declare in Judah, and proclaim in Jerusalem, and say, "Blow the trumpet through the land; cry aloud and say, 'Assemble, and let us go into the fortified cities!'
Jeremiah	4:6	Raise a standard toward Zion, flee for safety, stay not, for I bring disaster from the north, and great destruction.
Jeremiah	4:7	A lion has gone up from his thicket, a destroyer of nations has set out; he has gone out from his place to make your land a waste; your cities will be ruins without inhabitant.
Jeremiah	4:8	For this put on sackcloth, lament, and wail, for the fierce anger of the LORD has not turned back from us."
Jeremiah	4:9	"In that day, declares the LORD, courage shall fail both king and officials. The priests shall be appalled and the prophets astounded."
Jeremiah	4:10	Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD, surely you have utterly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, 'It shall be well with you,' whereas the sword has reached their very life."
Jeremiah	4:11	At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, "A hot wind from the bare heights in the desert toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow or cleanse,
Jeremiah	4:12	a wind too full for this comes for me. Now it is I who speak in judgment upon them."
Jeremiah	4:13	Behold, he comes up like clouds; his chariots like the whirlwind; his horses are swifter than eagles--woe to us, for we are ruined!
Jeremiah	4:14	O Jerusalem, wash your heart from evil, that you may be saved. How long shall your wicked thoughts lodge within you?
Jeremiah	4:15	For a voice declares from Dan and proclaims trouble from Mount Ephraim.
Jeremiah	4:16	Warn the nations that he is coming; announce to Jerusalem, "Besiegers come from a distant land; they shout against the cities of Judah.
Jeremiah	4:17	Like keepers of a field are they against her all around, because she has rebelled against me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	4:18	Your ways and your deeds have brought this upon you. This is your doom, and it is bitter; it has reached your very heart."
Jeremiah	4:19	My anguish, my anguish! I writhe in pain! Oh the walls of my heart! My heart is beating wildly; I cannot keep silent, for I hear the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
Jeremiah	4:20	Crash follows hard on crash; the whole land is laid waste. Suddenly my tents are laid waste, my curtains in a moment.
Jeremiah	4:21	How long must I see the standard and hear the sound of the trumpet?
Jeremiah	4:22	"For my people are foolish; they know me not; they are stupid children; they have no understanding. They are 'wise'--in doing evil! But how to do good they know not."
Jeremiah	4:23	I looked on the earth, and behold, it was without form and void; and to the heavens, and they had no light.
Jeremiah	4:24	I looked on the mountains, and behold, they were quaking, and all the hills moved to and fro.
Jeremiah	4:25	I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the air had fled.
Jeremiah	4:26	I looked, and behold, the fruitful land was a desert, and all its cities were laid in ruins before the LORD, before his fierce anger.
Jeremiah	4:27	For thus says the LORD, "The whole land shall be a desolation; yet I will not make a full end.
Jeremiah	4:28	"For this the earth shall mourn, and the heavens above be dark; for I have spoken; I have purposed; I have not relented, nor will I turn back."
Jeremiah	4:29	At the noise of horseman and archer every city takes to flight; they enter thickets; they climb among rocks; all the cities are forsaken, and no man dwells in them.
Jeremiah	4:30	And you, O desolate one, what do you mean that you dress in scarlet, that you adorn yourself with ornaments of gold, that you enlarge your eyes with paint? In vain you beautify yourself. Your lovers despise you; they seek your life.
Jeremiah	4:31	For I heard a cry as of a woman in labor, anguish as of one giving birth to her first child, the cry of the daughter of Zion gasping for breath, stretching out her hands, "Woe is me! I am fainting before murderers."
Jeremiah	5:1	Run to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, look and take note! Search her squares to see if you can find a man, one who does justice and seeks truth, that I may pardon her.
Jeremiah	5:2	Though they say, "As the LORD lives," yet they swear falsely.
Jeremiah	5:3	O LORD, do not your eyes look for truth? You have struck them down, but they felt no anguish; you have consumed them, but they refused to take correction. They have made their faces harder than rock; they have refused to repent.
Jeremiah	5:4	Then I said, "These are only the poor; they have no sense; for they do not know the way of the LORD, the justice of their God.
Jeremiah	5:5	I will go to the great and will speak to them, for they know the way of the LORD, the justice of their God." But they all alike had broken the yoke; they had burst the bonds.
Jeremiah	5:6	Therefore a lion from the forest shall strike them down; a wolf from the desert shall devastate them. A leopard is watching their cities; everyone who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces, because their transgressions are many, their apostasies are great.
Jeremiah	5:7	"How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me and have sworn by those who are no gods. When I fed them to the full, they committed adultery and trooped to the houses of whores.
Jeremiah	5:8	They were well-fed, lusty stallions, each neighing for his neighbor's wife.
Jeremiah	5:9	Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD; and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?
Jeremiah	5:10	"Go up through her vine rows and destroy, but make not a full end; strip away her branches, for they are not the LORD's.
Jeremiah	5:11	For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been utterly treacherous to me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	5:12	They have spoken falsely of the LORD and have said, 'He will do nothing; no disaster will come upon us, nor shall we see sword or famine.
Jeremiah	5:13	The prophets will become wind; the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them!'"
Jeremiah	5:14	Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts: "Because you have spoken this word, behold, I am making my words in your mouth a fire, and this people wood, and the fire shall consume them.
Jeremiah	5:15	Behold, I am bringing against you a nation from afar, O house of Israel, declares the LORD. It is an enduring nation; it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what they say.
Jeremiah	5:16	Their quiver is like an open tomb; they are all mighty warriors.
Jeremiah	5:17	They shall eat up your harvest and your food; they shall eat up your sons and your daughters; they shall eat up your flocks and your herds; they shall eat up your vines and your fig trees; your fortified cities in which you trust they shall beat down with the sword."
Jeremiah	5:18	"But even in those days, declares the LORD, I will not make a full end of you.
Jeremiah	5:19	And when your people say, 'Why has the LORD our God done all these things to us?' you shall say to them, 'As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your land, so you shall serve foreigners in a land that is not yours.'"
Jeremiah	5:20	Declare this in the house of Jacob; proclaim it in Judah:
Jeremiah	5:21	"Hear this, O foolish and senseless people, who have eyes, but see not, who have ears, but hear not.
Jeremiah	5:22	Do you not fear me? declares the LORD; Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the boundary for the sea, a perpetual barrier that it cannot pass; though the waves toss, they cannot prevail; though they roar, they cannot pass over it.
Jeremiah	5:23	But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart; they have turned aside and gone away.
Jeremiah	5:24	They do not say in their hearts, 'Let us fear the LORD our God, who gives the rain in its season, the autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest.'
Jeremiah	5:25	Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you.
Jeremiah	5:26	For wicked men are found among my people; they lurk like fowlers lying in wait. They set a trap; they catch men.
Jeremiah	5:27	Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit; therefore they have become great and rich;
Jeremiah	5:28	they have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of evil; they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy.
Jeremiah	5:29	Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?"
Jeremiah	5:30	An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land:
Jeremiah	5:31	the prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule at their direction; my people love to have it so, but what will you do when the end comes?
Jeremiah	6:1	Flee for safety, O people of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem! Blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise a signal on Beth-haccherem, for disaster looms out of the north, and great destruction.
Jeremiah	6:2	The lovely and delicately bred I will destroy, the daughter of Zion.
Jeremiah	6:3	Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her; they shall pitch their tents around her; they shall pasture, each in his place.
Jeremiah	6:4	"Prepare war against her; arise, and let us attack at noon! Woe to us, for the day declines, for the shadows of evening lengthen!
Jeremiah	6:5	Arise, and let us attack by night and destroy her palaces!"
Jeremiah	6:6	For thus says the LORD of hosts: "Cut down her trees; cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This is the city that must be punished; there is nothing but oppression within her.
Jeremiah	6:7	As a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her evil; violence and destruction are heard within her; sickness and wounds are ever before me.
Jeremiah	6:8	Be warned, O Jerusalem, lest I turn from you in disgust, lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited land."
Jeremiah	6:9	Thus says the LORD of hosts: "They shall glean thoroughly as a vine the remnant of Israel; like a grape-gatherer pass your hand again over its branches."
Jeremiah	6:10	To whom shall I speak and give warning, that they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised, they cannot listen; behold, the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn; they take no pleasure in it.
Jeremiah	6:11	Therefore I am full of the wrath of the LORD; I am weary of holding it in. "Pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the gatherings of young men, also; both husband and wife shall be taken, the elderly and the very aged.
Jeremiah	6:12	Their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together, for I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land," declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	6:13	"For from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jeremiah	6:14	They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, 'Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
Jeremiah	6:15	Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them, they shall be overthrown," says the LORD.
Jeremiah	6:16	Thus says the LORD: "Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, 'We will not walk in it.'
Jeremiah	6:17	I set watchmen over you, saying, 'Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet!' But they said, 'We will not pay attention.'
Jeremiah	6:18	Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them.
Jeremiah	6:19	Hear, O earth; behold, I am bringing disaster upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they have not paid attention to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
Jeremiah	6:20	What use to me is frankincense that comes from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.
Jeremiah	6:21	Therefore thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against which they shall stumble; fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend shall perish.'"
Jeremiah	6:22	Thus says the LORD: "Behold, a people is coming from the north country, a great nation is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth.
Jeremiah	6:23	They lay hold on bow and javelin; they are cruel and have no mercy; the sound of them is like the roaring sea; they ride on horses, set in array as a man for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion!"
Jeremiah	6:24	We have heard the report of it; our hands fall helpless; anguish has taken hold of us, pain as of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah	6:25	Go not out into the field, nor walk on the road, for the enemy has a sword; terror is on every side.
Jeremiah	6:26	O daughter of my people, put on sackcloth, and roll in ashes; make mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation, for suddenly the destroyer will come upon us.
Jeremiah	6:27	"I have made you a tester of metals among my people, that you may know and test their ways.
Jeremiah	6:28	They are all stubbornly rebellious, going about with slanders; they are bronze and iron; all of them act corruptly.
Jeremiah	6:29	The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed by the fire; in vain the refining goes on, for the wicked are not removed.
Jeremiah	6:30	Rejected silver they are called, for the LORD has rejected them."
Jeremiah	7:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	7:2	"Stand in the gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of the LORD, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the LORD.
Jeremiah	7:3	Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Amend your ways and your deeds, and I will let you dwell in this place.
Jeremiah	7:4	Do not trust in these deceptive words: 'This is the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD.'
Jeremiah	7:5	"For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice one with another,
Jeremiah	7:6	if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm,
Jeremiah	7:7	then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever.
Jeremiah	7:8	"Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail.
Jeremiah	7:9	Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known,
Jeremiah	7:10	and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, 'We are delivered!'--only to go on doing all these abominations?
Jeremiah	7:11	Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself have seen it, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	7:12	Go now to my place that was in Shiloh, where I made my name dwell at first, and see what I did to it because of the evil of my people Israel.
Jeremiah	7:13	And now, because you have done all these things, declares the LORD, and when I spoke to you persistently you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer,
Jeremiah	7:14	therefore I will do to the house that is called by my name, and in which you trust, and to the place that I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
Jeremiah	7:15	And I will cast you out of my sight, as I cast out all your kinsmen, all the offspring of Ephraim.
Jeremiah	7:16	"As for you, do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer for them, and do not intercede with me, for I will not hear you.
Jeremiah	7:17	Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jeremiah	7:18	The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, and the women knead dough, to make cakes for the queen of heaven. And they pour out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
Jeremiah	7:19	Is it I whom they provoke? declares the LORD. Is it not themselves, to their own shame?
Jeremiah	7:20	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: behold, my anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place, upon man and beast, upon the trees of the field and the fruit of the ground; it will burn and not be quenched."
Jeremiah	7:21	Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh.
Jeremiah	7:22	For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Jeremiah	7:23	But this command I gave them: 'Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people. And walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.'
Jeremiah	7:24	But they did not obey or incline their ear, but walked in their own counsels and the stubbornness of their evil hearts, and went backward and not forward.
Jeremiah	7:25	From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent all my servants the prophets to them, day after day.
Jeremiah	7:26	Yet they did not listen to me or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck. They did worse than their fathers.
Jeremiah	7:27	"So you shall speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. You shall call to them, but they will not answer you.
Jeremiah	7:28	And you shall say to them, 'This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, and did not accept discipline; truth has perished; it is cut off from their lips.
Jeremiah	7:29	"'Cut off your hair and cast it away; raise a lamentation on the bare heights, for the LORD has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.'
Jeremiah	7:30	"For the sons of Judah have done evil in my sight, declares the LORD. They have set their detestable things in the house that is called by my name, to defile it.
Jeremiah	7:31	And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind.
Jeremiah	7:32	Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when it will no more be called Topheth, or the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter; for they will bury in Topheth, because there is no room elsewhere.
Jeremiah	7:33	And the dead bodies of this people will be food for the birds of the air, and for the beasts of the earth, and none will frighten them away.
Jeremiah	7:34	And I will silence in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, for the land shall become a waste.
Jeremiah	8:1	"At that time, declares the LORD, the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its officials, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be brought out of their tombs.
Jeremiah	8:2	And they shall be spread before the sun and the moon and all the host of heaven, which they have loved and served, which they have gone after, and which they have sought and worshiped. And they shall not be gathered or buried. They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground.
Jeremiah	8:3	Death shall be preferred to life by all the remnant that remains of this evil family in all the places where I have driven them, declares the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah	8:4	"You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD: When men fall, do they not rise again? If one turns away, does he not return?
Jeremiah	8:5	Why then has this people turned away in perpetual backsliding? They hold fast to deceit; they refuse to return.
Jeremiah	8:6	I have paid attention and listened, but they have not spoken rightly; no man relents of his evil, saying, 'What have I done?' Everyone turns to his own course, like a horse plunging headlong into battle.
Jeremiah	8:7	Even the stork in the heavens knows her times, and the turtledove, swallow, and crane keep the time of their coming, but my people know not the rules of the LORD.
Jeremiah	8:8	"How can you say, 'We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us'? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes has made it into a lie.
Jeremiah	8:9	The wise men shall be put to shame; they shall be dismayed and taken; behold, they have rejected the word of the LORD, so what wisdom is in them?
Jeremiah	8:10	Therefore I will give their wives to others and their fields to conquerors, because from the least to the greatest everyone is greedy for unjust gain; from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jeremiah	8:11	They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, 'Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
Jeremiah	8:12	Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among the fallen; when I punish them, they shall be overthrown, says the LORD.
Jeremiah	8:13	When I would gather them, declares the LORD, there are no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree; even the leaves are withered, and what I gave them has passed away from them."
Jeremiah	8:14	Why do we sit still? Gather together; let us go into the fortified cities and perish there, for the LORD our God has doomed us to perish and has given us poisoned water to drink, because we have sinned against the LORD.
Jeremiah	8:15	We looked for peace, but no good came; for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jeremiah	8:16	"The snorting of their horses is heard from Dan; at the sound of the neighing of their stallions the whole land quakes. They come and devour the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it.
Jeremiah	8:17	For behold, I am sending among you serpents, adders that cannot be charmed, and they shall bite you," declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	8:18	My joy is gone; grief is upon me; my heart is sick within me.
Jeremiah	8:19	Behold, the cry of the daughter of my people from the length and breadth of the land: "Is the LORD not in Zion? Is her King not in her?Why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images and with their foreign idols?"
Jeremiah	8:20	"The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved."
Jeremiah	8:21	For the wound of the daughter of my people is my heart wounded; I mourn, and dismay has taken hold on me.
Jeremiah	8:22	Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my people not been restored?
Jeremiah	9:1	Oh that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!
Jeremiah	9:2	Oh that I had in the desert a travelers' lodging place, that I might leave my people and go away from them! For they are all adulterers, a company of treacherous men.
Jeremiah	9:3	They bend their tongue like a bow; falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	9:4	Let everyone beware of his neighbor, and put no trust in any brother, for every brother is a deceiver, and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer.
Jeremiah	9:5	Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the truth; they have taught their tongue to speak lies; they weary themselves committing iniquity.
Jeremiah	9:6	Heaping oppression upon oppression, and deceit upon deceit, they refuse to know me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	9:7	Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will refine them and test them, for what else can I do, because of my people?
Jeremiah	9:8	Their tongue is a deadly arrow; it speaks deceitfully; with his mouth each speaks peace to his neighbor, but in his heart he plans an ambush for him.
Jeremiah	9:9	Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?
Jeremiah	9:10	"I will take up weeping and wailing for the mountains, and a lamentation for the pastures of the wilderness, because they are laid waste so that no one passes through, and the lowing of cattle is not heard; both the birds of the air and the beasts have fled and are gone.
Jeremiah	9:11	I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, a lair of jackals, and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant."
Jeremiah	9:12	Who is the man so wise that he can understand this? To whom has the mouth of the LORD spoken, that he may declare it? Why is the land ruined and laid waste like a wilderness, so that no one passes through?
Jeremiah	9:13	And the LORD says: "Because they have forsaken my law that I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice or walked in accord with it,
Jeremiah	9:14	but have stubbornly followed their own hearts and have gone after the Baals, as their fathers taught them.
Jeremiah	9:15	Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will feed this people with bitter food, and give them poisonous water to drink.
Jeremiah	9:16	I will scatter them among the nations whom neither they nor their fathers have known, and I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them."
Jeremiah	9:17	Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Consider, and call for the mourning women to come; send for the skillful women to come;
Jeremiah	9:18	let them make haste and raise a wailing over us, that our eyes may run down with tears and our eyelids flow with water.
Jeremiah	9:19	For a sound of wailing is heard from Zion: 'How we are ruined! We are utterly shamed, because we have left the land, because they have cast down our dwellings.'"
Jeremiah	9:20	Hear, O women, the word of the LORD, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; teach to your daughters a lament, and each to her neighbor a dirge.
Jeremiah	9:21	For death has come up into our windows; it has entered our palaces, cutting off the children from the streets and the young men from the squares.
Jeremiah	9:22	Speak, "Thus declares the LORD: 'The dead bodies of men shall fall like dung upon the open field, like sheaves after the reaper, and none shall gather them.'"
Jeremiah	9:23	Thus says the LORD: "Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches,
Jeremiah	9:24	but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the LORD who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	9:25	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will punish all those who are circumcised merely in the flesh--
Jeremiah	9:26	Egypt, Judah, Edom, the sons of Ammon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert who cut the corners of their hair, for all these nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart."
Jeremiah	10:1	Hear the word that the LORD speaks to you, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah	10:2	Thus says the LORD: "Learn not the way of the nations, nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens because the nations are dismayed at them,
Jeremiah	10:3	for the customs of the peoples are vanity. A tree from the forest is cut down and worked with an axe by the hands of a craftsman.
Jeremiah	10:4	They decorate it with silver and gold; they fasten it with hammer and nails so that it cannot move.
Jeremiah	10:5	Their idols are like scarecrows in a cucumber field, and they cannot speak; they have to be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good."
Jeremiah	10:6	There is none like you, O LORD; you are great, and your name is great in might.
Jeremiah	10:7	Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? For this is your due; for among all the wise ones of the nations and in all their kingdoms there is none like you.
Jeremiah	10:8	They are both stupid and foolish; the instruction of idols is but wood!
Jeremiah	10:9	Beaten silver is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz. They are the work of the craftsman and of the hands of the goldsmith; their clothing is violet and purple; they are all the work of skilled men.
Jeremiah	10:10	But the LORD is the true God; he is the living God and the everlasting King. At his wrath the earth quakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation.
Jeremiah	10:11	Thus shall you say to them: "The gods who did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from the earth and from under the heavens."
Jeremiah	10:12	It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jeremiah	10:13	When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Jeremiah	10:14	Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his images are false, and there is no breath in them.
Jeremiah	10:15	They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jeremiah	10:16	Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Jeremiah	10:17	Gather up your bundle from the ground, O you who dwell under siege!
Jeremiah	10:18	For thus says the LORD: "Behold, I am slinging out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and I will bring distress on them, that they may feel it."
Jeremiah	10:19	Woe is me because of my hurt! My wound is grievous. But I said, "Truly this is an affliction, and I must bear it."
Jeremiah	10:20	My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken; my children have gone from me, and they are not; there is no one to spread my tent again and to set up my curtains.
Jeremiah	10:21	For the shepherds are stupid and do not inquire of the LORD; therefore they have not prospered, and all their flock is scattered.
Jeremiah	10:22	A voice, a rumor! Behold, it comes!--a great commotion out of the north country to make the cities of Judah a desolation, a lair of jackals.
Jeremiah	10:23	I know, O LORD, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.
Jeremiah	10:24	Correct me, O LORD, but in justice; not in your anger, lest you bring me to nothing.
Jeremiah	10:25	Pour out your wrath on the nations that know you not, and on the peoples that call not on your name, for they have devoured Jacob; they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.
Jeremiah	11:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	11:2	"Hear the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	11:3	You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Cursed be the man who does not hear the words of this covenant
Jeremiah	11:4	that I commanded your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, Listen to my voice, and do all that I command you. So shall you be my people, and I will be your God,
Jeremiah	11:5	that I may confirm the oath that I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this day." Then I answered, "So be it, LORD."
Jeremiah	11:6	And the LORD said to me, "Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: Hear the words of this covenant and do them.
Jeremiah	11:7	For I solemnly warned your fathers when I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, warning them persistently, even to this day, saying, Obey my voice.
Jeremiah	11:8	Yet they did not obey or incline their ear, but everyone walked in the stubbornness of his evil heart. Therefore I brought upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not."
Jeremiah	11:9	Again the LORD said to me, "A conspiracy exists among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	11:10	They have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words. They have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their fathers.
Jeremiah	11:11	Therefore, thus says the LORD, behold, I am bringing disaster upon them that they cannot escape. Though they cry to me, I will not listen to them.
Jeremiah	11:12	Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they make offerings, but they cannot save them in the time of their trouble.
Jeremiah	11:13	For your gods have become as many as your cities, O Judah, and as many as the streets of Jerusalem are the altars you have set up to shame, altars to make offerings to Baal.
Jeremiah	11:14	"Therefore do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer on their behalf, for I will not listen when they call to me in the time of their trouble.
Jeremiah	11:15	What right has my beloved in my house, when she has done many vile deeds? Can even sacrificial flesh avert your doom? Can you then exult?
Jeremiah	11:16	The LORD once called you 'a green olive tree, beautiful with good fruit.' But with the roar of a great tempest he will set fire to it, and its branches will be consumed.
Jeremiah	11:17	The LORD of hosts, who planted you, has decreed disaster against you, because of the evil that the house of Israel and the house of Judah have done, provoking me to anger by making offerings to Baal."
Jeremiah	11:18	The LORD made it known to me and I knew; then you showed me their deeds.
Jeremiah	11:19	But I was like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter. I did not know it was against me they devised schemes, saying, "Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name be remembered no more."
Jeremiah	11:20	But, O LORD of hosts, who judges righteously, who tests the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jeremiah	11:21	Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, and say, "Do not prophesy in the name of the LORD, or you will die by our hand"--
Jeremiah	11:22	therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will punish them. The young men shall die by the sword, their sons and their daughters shall die by famine,
Jeremiah	11:23	and none of them shall be left. For I will bring disaster upon the men of Anathoth, the year of their punishment."
Jeremiah	12:1	Righteous are you, O LORD, when I complain to you; yet I would plead my case before you. Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive?
Jeremiah	12:2	You plant them, and they take root; they grow and produce fruit; you are near in their mouth and far from their heart.
Jeremiah	12:3	But you, O LORD, know me; you see me, and test my heart toward you. Pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and set them apart for the day of slaughter.
Jeremiah	12:4	How long will the land mourn and the grass of every field wither? For the evil of those who dwell in it the beasts and the birds are swept away, because they said, "He will not see our latter end."
Jeremiah	12:5	"If you have raced with men on foot, and they have wearied you, how will you compete with horses? And if in a safe land you are so trusting, what will you do in the thicket of the Jordan?
Jeremiah	12:6	For even your brothers and the house of your father, even they have dealt treacherously with you; they are in full cry after you; do not believe them, though they speak friendly words to you."
Jeremiah	12:7	"I have forsaken my house; I have abandoned my heritage; I have given the beloved of my soul into the hands of her enemies.
Jeremiah	12:8	My heritage has become to me like a lion in the forest; she has lifted up her voice against me; therefore I hate her.
Jeremiah	12:9	Is my heritage to me like a hyena's lair? Are the birds of prey against her all around? Go, assemble all the wild beasts; bring them to devour.
Jeremiah	12:10	Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard; they have trampled down my portion; they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.
Jeremiah	12:11	They have made it a desolation; desolate, it mourns to me. The whole land is made desolate, but no man lays it to heart.
Jeremiah	12:12	Upon all the bare heights in the desert destroyers have come, for the sword of the LORD devours from one end of the land to the other; no flesh has peace.
Jeremiah	12:13	They have sown wheat and have reaped thorns; they have tired themselves out but profit nothing. They shall be ashamed of their harvests because of the fierce anger of the LORD."
Jeremiah	12:14	Thus says the LORD concerning all my evil neighbors who touch the heritage that I have given my people Israel to inherit: "Behold, I will pluck them up from their land, and I will pluck up the house of Judah from among them.
Jeremiah	12:15	And after I have plucked them up, I will again have compassion on them, and I will bring them again each to his heritage and each to his land.
Jeremiah	12:16	And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, 'As the LORD lives,' even as they taught my people to swear by Baal, then they shall be built up in the midst of my people.
Jeremiah	12:17	But if any nation will not listen, then I will utterly pluck it up and destroy it, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	13:1	Thus says the LORD to me, "Go and buy a linen loincloth and put it around your waist, and do not dip it in water."
Jeremiah	13:2	So I bought a loincloth according to the word of the LORD, and put it around my waist.
Jeremiah	13:3	And the word of the LORD came to me a second time,
Jeremiah	13:4	"Take the loincloth that you have bought, which is around your waist, and arise, go to the Euphrates and hide it there in a cleft of the rock."
Jeremiah	13:5	So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.
Jeremiah	13:6	And after many days the LORD said to me, "Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the loincloth that I commanded you to hide there."
Jeremiah	13:7	Then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and I took the loincloth from the place where I had hidden it. And behold, the loincloth was spoiled; it was good for nothing.
Jeremiah	13:8	Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah	13:9	"Thus says the LORD: Even so will I spoil the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	13:10	This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who stubbornly follow their own heart and have gone after other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be like this loincloth, which is good for nothing.
Jeremiah	13:11	For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to me, declares the LORD, that they might be for me a people, a name, a praise, and a glory, but they would not listen.
Jeremiah	13:12	"You shall speak to them this word: 'Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, "Every jar shall be filled with wine."' And they will say to you, 'Do we not indeed know that every jar will be filled with wine?'
Jeremiah	13:13	Then you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will fill with drunkenness all the inhabitants of this land: the kings who sit on David's throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	13:14	And I will dash them one against another, fathers and sons together, declares the LORD. I will not pity or spare or have compassion, that I should not destroy them.'"
Jeremiah	13:15	Hear and give ear; be not proud, for the LORD has spoken.
Jeremiah	13:16	Give glory to the LORD your God before he brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the twilight mountains, and while you look for light he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness.
Jeremiah	13:17	But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in secret for your pride; my eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the LORD's flock has been taken captive.
Jeremiah	13:18	Say to the king and the queen mother: "Take a lowly seat, for your beautiful crown has come down from your head."
Jeremiah	13:19	The cities of the Negeb are shut up, with none to open them; all Judah is taken into exile, wholly taken into exile.
Jeremiah	13:20	"Lift up your eyes and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock that was given you, your beautiful flock?
Jeremiah	13:21	What will you say when they set as head over you those whom you yourself have taught to be friends to you? Will not pangs take hold of you like those of a woman in labor?
Jeremiah	13:22	And if you say in your heart, 'Why have these things come upon me?' it is for the greatness of your iniquity that your skirts are lifted up and you suffer violence.
Jeremiah	13:23	Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then also you can do good who are accustomed to do evil.
Jeremiah	13:24	I will scatter you like chaff driven by the wind from the desert.
Jeremiah	13:25	This is your lot, the portion I have measured out to you, declares the LORD, because you have forgotten me and trusted in lies.
Jeremiah	13:26	I myself will lift up your skirts over your face, and your shame will be seen.
Jeremiah	13:27	I have seen your abominations, your adulteries and neighings, your lewd whorings, on the hills in the field. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! How long will it be before you are made clean?"
Jeremiah	14:1	The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought:
Jeremiah	14:2	"Judah mourns and her gates languish; her people lament on the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up.
Jeremiah	14:3	Her nobles send their servants for water; they come to the cisterns; they find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are ashamed and confounded and cover their heads.
Jeremiah	14:4	Because of the ground that is dismayed, since there is no rain on the land, the farmers are ashamed; they cover their heads.
Jeremiah	14:5	Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn because there is no grass.
Jeremiah	14:6	The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights; they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail because there is no vegetation.
Jeremiah	14:7	"Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O LORD, for your name's sake; for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against you.
Jeremiah	14:8	O you hope of Israel, its savior in time of trouble, why should you be like a stranger in the land, like a traveler who turns aside to tarry for a night?
Jeremiah	14:9	Why should you be like a man confused, like a mighty warrior who cannot save? Yet you, O LORD, are in the midst of us, and we are called by your name; do not leave us."
Jeremiah	14:10	Thus says the LORD concerning this people: "They have loved to wander thus; they have not restrained their feet; therefore the LORD does not accept them; now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins."
Jeremiah	14:11	The LORD said to me: "Do not pray for the welfare of this people.
Jeremiah	14:12	Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, and though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence."
Jeremiah	14:13	Then I said: "Ah, Lord GOD, behold, the prophets say to them, 'You shall not see the sword, nor shall you have famine, but I will give you assured peace in this place.'"
Jeremiah	14:14	And the LORD said to me: "The prophets are prophesying lies in my name. I did not send them, nor did I command them or speak to them. They are prophesying to you a lying vision, worthless divination, and the deceit of their own minds.
Jeremiah	14:15	Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name although I did not send them, and who say, 'Sword and famine shall not come upon this land': By sword and famine those prophets shall be consumed.
Jeremiah	14:16	And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, victims of famine and sword, with none to bury them--them, their wives, their sons, and their daughters. For I will pour out their evil upon them.
Jeremiah	14:17	"You shall say to them this word: 'Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease, for the virgin daughter of my people is shattered with a great wound, with a very grievous blow.
Jeremiah	14:18	If I go out into the field, behold, those pierced by the sword! And if I enter the city, behold, the diseases of famine! For both prophet and priest ply their trade through the land and have no knowledge.'"
Jeremiah	14:19	Have you utterly rejected Judah? Does your soul loathe Zion? Why have you struck us down so that there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came; for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jeremiah	14:20	We acknowledge our wickedness, O LORD, and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against you.
Jeremiah	14:21	Do not spurn us, for your name's sake; do not dishonor your glorious throne; remember and do not break your covenant with us.
Jeremiah	14:22	Are there any among the false gods of the nations that can bring rain? Or can the heavens give showers? Are you not he, O LORD our God? We set our hope on you, for you do all these things.
Jeremiah	15:1	Then the LORD said to me, "Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my heart would not turn toward this people. Send them out of my sight, and let them go!
Jeremiah	15:2	And when they ask you, 'Where shall we go?' you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: "'Those who are for pestilence, to pestilence, and those who are for the sword, to the sword; those who are for famine, to famine, and those who are for captivity, to captivity.'
Jeremiah	15:3	I will appoint over them four kinds of destroyers, declares the LORD: the sword to kill, the dogs to tear, and the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy.
Jeremiah	15:4	And I will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth because of what Manasseh the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	15:5	"Who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem, or who will grieve for you? Who will turn aside to ask about your welfare?
Jeremiah	15:6	You have rejected me, declares the LORD; you keep going backward, so I have stretched out my hand against you and destroyed you--I am weary of relenting.
Jeremiah	15:7	I have winnowed them with a winnowing fork in the gates of the land; I have bereaved them; I have destroyed my people; they did not turn from their ways.
Jeremiah	15:8	I have made their widows more in number than the sand of the seas; I have brought against the mothers of young men a destroyer at noonday; I have made anguish and terror fall upon them suddenly.
Jeremiah	15:9	She who bore seven has grown feeble; she has fainted away; her sun went down while it was yet day; she has been shamed and disgraced. And the rest of them I will give to the sword before their enemies, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	15:10	Woe is me, my mother, that you bore me, a man of strife and contention to the whole land! I have not lent, nor have I borrowed, yet all of them curse me.
Jeremiah	15:11	The LORD said, "Have I not set you free for their good? Have I not pleaded for you before the enemy in the time of trouble and in the time of distress?
Jeremiah	15:12	Can one break iron, iron from the north, and bronze?
Jeremiah	15:13	"Your wealth and your treasures I will give as spoil, without price, for all your sins, throughout all your territory.
Jeremiah	15:14	I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever."
Jeremiah	15:15	O LORD, you know; remember me and visit me, and take vengeance for me on my persecutors. In your forbearance take me not away; know that for your sake I bear reproach.
Jeremiah	15:16	Your words were found, and I ate them, and your words became to me a joy and the delight of my heart, for I am called by your name, O LORD, God of hosts.
Jeremiah	15:17	I did not sit in the company of revelers, nor did I rejoice; I sat alone, because your hand was upon me, for you had filled me with indignation.
Jeremiah	15:18	Why is my pain unceasing, my wound incurable, refusing to be healed? Will you be to me like a deceitful brook, like waters that fail?
Jeremiah	15:19	Therefore thus says the LORD: "If you return, I will restore you, and you shall stand before me. If you utter what is precious, and not what is worthless, you shall be as my mouth. They shall turn to you, but you shall not turn to them.
Jeremiah	15:20	And I will make you to this people a fortified wall of bronze; they will fight against you, but they shall not prevail over you, for I am with you to save you and deliver you, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	15:21	I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and redeem you from the grasp of the ruthless."
Jeremiah	16:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah	16:2	"You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place.
Jeremiah	16:3	For thus says the LORD concerning the sons and daughters who are born in this place, and concerning the mothers who bore them and the fathers who fathered them in this land:
Jeremiah	16:4	They shall die of deadly diseases. They shall not be lamented, nor shall they be buried. They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground. They shall perish by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah	16:5	"For thus says the LORD: Do not enter the house of mourning, or go to lament or grieve for them, for I have taken away my peace from this people, my steadfast love and mercy, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	16:6	Both great and small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, and no one shall lament for them or cut himself or make himself bald for them.
Jeremiah	16:7	No one shall break bread for the mourner, to comfort him for the dead, nor shall anyone give him the cup of consolation to drink for his father or his mother.
Jeremiah	16:8	You shall not go into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and drink.
Jeremiah	16:9	For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will silence in this place, before your eyes and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.
Jeremiah	16:10	"And when you tell this people all these words, and they say to you, 'Why has the LORD pronounced all this great evil against us? What is our iniquity? What is the sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?'
Jeremiah	16:11	then you shall say to them: 'Because your fathers have forsaken me, declares the LORD, and have gone after other gods and have served and worshiped them, and have forsaken me and have not kept my law,
Jeremiah	16:12	and because you have done worse than your fathers, for behold, every one of you follows his stubborn, evil will, refusing to listen to me.
Jeremiah	16:13	Therefore I will hurl you out of this land into a land that neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no favor.'
Jeremiah	16:14	"Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when it shall no longer be said, 'As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,'
Jeremiah	16:15	but 'As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country and out of all the countries where he had driven them.' For I will bring them back to their own land that I gave to their fathers.
Jeremiah	16:16	"Behold, I am sending for many fishers, declares the LORD, and they shall catch them. And afterward I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain and every hill, and out of the clefts of the rocks.
Jeremiah	16:17	For my eyes are on all their ways. They are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes.
Jeremiah	16:18	But first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their sin, because they have polluted my land with the carcasses of their detestable idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations."
Jeremiah	16:19	O LORD, my strength and my stronghold, my refuge in the day of trouble, to you shall the nations come from the ends of the earth and say: "Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, worthless things in which there is no profit.
Jeremiah	16:20	Can man make for himself gods? Such are not gods!"
Jeremiah	16:21	"Therefore, behold, I will make them know, this once I will make them know my power and my might, and they shall know that my name is the LORD."
Jeremiah	17:1	"The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron; with a point of diamond it is engraved on the tablet of their heart, and on the horns of their altars,
Jeremiah	17:2	while their children remember their altars and their Asherim, beside every green tree and on the high hills,
Jeremiah	17:3	on the mountains in the open country. Your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory.
Jeremiah	17:4	You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave to you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know, for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever."
Jeremiah	17:5	Thus says the LORD: "Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the LORD.
Jeremiah	17:6	He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land.
Jeremiah	17:7	"Blessed is the man who trusts in the LORD, whose trust is the LORD.
Jeremiah	17:8	He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit."
Jeremiah	17:9	The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it?
Jeremiah	17:10	"I the LORD search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds."
Jeremiah	17:11	Like the partridge that gathers a brood that she did not hatch, so is he who gets riches but not by justice; in the midst of his days they will leave him, and at his end he will be a fool.
Jeremiah	17:12	A glorious throne set on high from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.
Jeremiah	17:13	O LORD, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be put to shame; those who turn away from you shall be written in the earth, for they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living water.
Jeremiah	17:14	Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise.
Jeremiah	17:15	Behold, they say to me, "Where is the word of the LORD? Let it come!"
Jeremiah	17:16	I have not run away from being your shepherd, nor have I desired the day of sickness. You know what came out of my lips; it was before your face.
Jeremiah	17:17	Be not a terror to me; you are my refuge in the day of disaster.
Jeremiah	17:18	Let those be put to shame who persecute me, but let me not be put to shame; let them be dismayed, but let me not be dismayed; bring upon them the day of disaster; destroy them with double destruction!
Jeremiah	17:19	Thus said the LORD to me: "Go and stand in the People's Gate, by which the kings of Judah enter and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem,
Jeremiah	17:20	and say: 'Hear the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, who enter by these gates.
Jeremiah	17:21	Thus says the LORD: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	17:22	And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers.
Jeremiah	17:23	Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck, that they might not hear and receive instruction.
Jeremiah	17:24	"'But if you listen to me, declares the LORD, and bring in no burden by the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but keep the Sabbath day holy and do no work on it,
Jeremiah	17:25	then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this city shall be inhabited forever.
Jeremiah	17:26	And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the Shephelah, from the hill country, and from the Negeb, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and frankincense, and bringing thank offerings to the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah	17:27	But if you do not listen to me, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and not to bear a burden and enter by the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem and shall not be quenched.'"
Jeremiah	18:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	18:2	"Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will let you hear my words."
Jeremiah	18:3	So I went down to the potter's house, and there he was working at his wheel.
Jeremiah	18:4	And the vessel he was making of clay was spoiled in the potter's hand, and he reworked it into another vessel, as it seemed good to the potter to do.
Jeremiah	18:5	Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah	18:6	"O house of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter has done? declares the LORD. Behold, like the clay in the potter's hand, so are you in my hand, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah	18:7	If at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom, that I will pluck up and break down and destroy it,
Jeremiah	18:8	and if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do to it.
Jeremiah	18:9	And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will build and plant it,
Jeremiah	18:10	and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent of the good that I had intended to do to it.
Jeremiah	18:11	Now, therefore, say to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: 'Thus says the LORD, behold, I am shaping disaster against you and devising a plan against you. Return, every one from his evil way, and amend your ways and your deeds.'
Jeremiah	18:12	"But they say, 'That is in vain! We will follow our own plans, and will every one act according to the stubbornness of his evil heart.'
Jeremiah	18:13	"Therefore thus says the LORD: Ask among the nations, Who has heard the like of this? The virgin Israel has done a very horrible thing.
Jeremiah	18:14	Does the snow of Lebanon leave the crags of Sirion? Do the mountain waters run dry, the cold flowing streams?
Jeremiah	18:15	But my people have forgotten me; they make offerings to false gods; they made them stumble in their ways, in the ancient roads, and to walk into side roads, not the highway,
Jeremiah	18:16	making their land a horror, a thing to be hissed at forever. Everyone who passes by it is horrified and shakes his head.
Jeremiah	18:17	Like the east wind I will scatter them before the enemy. I will show them my back, not my face, in the day of their calamity."
Jeremiah	18:18	Then they said, "Come, let us make plots against Jeremiah, for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, let us strike him with the tongue, and let us not pay attention to any of his words."
Jeremiah	18:19	Hear me, O LORD, and listen to the voice of my adversaries.
Jeremiah	18:20	Should good be repaid with evil? Yet they have dug a pit for my life. Remember how I stood before you to speak good for them, to turn away your wrath from them.
Jeremiah	18:21	Therefore deliver up their children to famine; give them over to the power of the sword; let their wives become childless and widowed. May their men meet death by pestilence, their youths be struck down by the sword in battle.
Jeremiah	18:22	May a cry be heard from their houses, when you bring the plunderer suddenly upon them! For they have dug a pit to take me and laid snares for my feet.
Jeremiah	18:23	Yet you, O LORD, know all their plotting to kill me. Forgive not their iniquity, nor blot out their sin from your sight. Let them be overthrown before you; deal with them in the time of your anger.
Jeremiah	19:1	Thus says the LORD, "Go, buy a potter's earthenware flask, and take some of the elders of the people and some of the elders of the priests,
Jeremiah	19:2	and go out to the Valley of the Son of Hinnom at the entry of the Potsherd Gate, and proclaim there the words that I tell you.
Jeremiah	19:3	You shall say, 'Hear the word of the LORD, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing such disaster upon this place that the ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle.
Jeremiah	19:4	Because the people have forsaken me and have profaned this place by making offerings in it to other gods whom neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah have known; and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocents,
Jeremiah	19:5	and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I did not command or decree, nor did it come into my mind--
Jeremiah	19:6	therefore, behold, days are coming, declares the LORD, when this place shall no more be called Topheth, or the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter.
Jeremiah	19:7	And in this place I will make void the plans of Judah and Jerusalem, and will cause their people to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hand of those who seek their life. I will give their dead bodies for food to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah	19:8	And I will make this city a horror, a thing to be hissed at. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its wounds.
Jeremiah	19:9	And I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and their daughters, and everyone shall eat the flesh of his neighbor in the siege and in the distress, with which their enemies and those who seek their life afflict them.'
Jeremiah	19:10	"Then you shall break the flask in the sight of the men who go with you,
Jeremiah	19:11	and shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts: So will I break this people and this city, as one breaks a potter's vessel, so that it can never be mended. Men shall bury in Topheth because there will be no place else to bury.
Jeremiah	19:12	Thus will I do to this place, declares the LORD, and to its inhabitants, making this city like Topheth.
Jeremiah	19:13	The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah--all the houses on whose roofs offerings have been offered to all the host of heaven, and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods--shall be defiled like the place of Topheth.'"
Jeremiah	19:14	Then Jeremiah came from Topheth, where the LORD had sent him to prophesy, and he stood in the court of the LORD's house and said to all the people:
Jeremiah	19:15	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I am bringing upon this city and upon all its towns all the disaster that I have pronounced against it, because they have stiffened their neck, refusing to hear my words."
Jeremiah	20:1	Now Pashhur the priest, the son of Immer, who was chief officer in the house of the LORD, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things.
Jeremiah	20:2	Then Pashhur beat Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper Benjamin Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah	20:3	The next day, when Pashhur released Jeremiah from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him, "The LORD does not call your name Pashhur, but Terror On Every Side.
Jeremiah	20:4	For thus says the LORD: Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends. They shall fall by the sword of their enemies while you look on. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon. He shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall strike them down with the sword.
Jeremiah	20:5	Moreover, I will give all the wealth of the city, all its gains, all its prized belongings, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hand of their enemies, who shall plunder them and seize them and carry them to Babylon.
Jeremiah	20:6	And you, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house, shall go into captivity. To Babylon you shall go, and there you shall die, and there you shall be buried, you and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied falsely."
Jeremiah	20:7	O LORD, you have deceived me, and I was deceived; you are stronger than I, and you have prevailed. I have become a laughingstock all the day; everyone mocks me.
Jeremiah	20:8	For whenever I speak, I cry out, I shout, "Violence and destruction!" For the word of the LORD has become for me a reproach and derision all day long.
Jeremiah	20:9	If I say, "I will not mention him, or speak any more in his name," there is in my heart as it were a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I am weary with holding it in, and I cannot.
Jeremiah	20:10	For I hear many whispering. Terror is on every side! "Denounce him! Let us denounce him!" say all my close friends, watching for my fall. "Perhaps he will be deceived; then we can overcome him and take our revenge on him."
Jeremiah	20:11	But the LORD is with me as a dread warrior; therefore my persecutors will stumble; they will not overcome me. They will be greatly shamed, for they will not succeed. Their eternal dishonor will never be forgotten.
Jeremiah	20:12	O LORD of hosts, who tests the righteous, who sees the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jeremiah	20:13	Sing to the LORD; praise the LORD! For he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of evildoers.
Jeremiah	20:14	Cursed be the day on which I was born! The day when my mother bore me, let it not be blessed!
Jeremiah	20:15	Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father, "A son is born to you," making him very glad.
Jeremiah	20:16	Let that man be like the cities that the LORD overthrew without pity; let him hear a cry in the morning and an alarm at noon,
Jeremiah	20:17	because he did not kill me in the womb; so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb forever great.
Jeremiah	20:18	Why did I come out from the womb to see toil and sorrow, and spend my days in shame?
Jeremiah	21:1	This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchiah and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying,
Jeremiah	21:2	"Inquire of the LORD for us, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps the LORD will deal with us according to all his wonderful deeds and will make him withdraw from us."
Jeremiah	21:3	Then Jeremiah said to them:
Jeremiah	21:4	"Thus you shall say to Zedekiah, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands and with which you are fighting against the king of Babylon and against the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls. And I will bring them together into the midst of this city.
Jeremiah	21:5	I myself will fight against you with outstretched hand and strong arm, in anger and in fury and in great wrath.
Jeremiah	21:6	And I will strike down the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. They shall die of a great pestilence.
Jeremiah	21:7	Afterward, declares the LORD, I will give Zedekiah king of Judah and his servants and the people in this city who survive the pestilence, sword, and famine into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of those who seek their lives. He shall strike them down with the edge of the sword. He shall not pity them or spare them or have compassion.'
Jeremiah	21:8	"And to this people you shall say: 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
Jeremiah	21:9	He who stays in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out and surrenders to the Chaldeans who are besieging you shall live and shall have his life as a prize of war.
Jeremiah	21:10	For I have set my face against this city for harm and not for good, declares the LORD: it shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.'
Jeremiah	21:11	"And to the house of the king of Judah say, 'Hear the word of the LORD,
Jeremiah	21:12	O house of David! Thus says the LORD: "'Execute justice in the morning, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of your evil deeds.'"
Jeremiah	21:13	"Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, O rock of the plain, declares the LORD; you who say, 'Who shall come down against us, or who shall enter our habitations?'
Jeremiah	21:14	I will punish you according to the fruit of your deeds, declares the LORD; I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is around her."
Jeremiah	22:1	Thus says the LORD: "Go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak there this word,
Jeremiah	22:2	and say, 'Hear the word of the LORD, O King of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, you, and your servants, and your people who enter these gates.
Jeremiah	22:3	Thus says the LORD: Do justice and righteousness, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed. And do no wrong or violence to the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, nor shed innocent blood in this place.
Jeremiah	22:4	For if you will indeed obey this word, then there shall enter the gates of this house kings who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their servants and their people.
Jeremiah	22:5	But if you will not obey these words, I swear by myself, declares the LORD, that this house shall become a desolation.
Jeremiah	22:6	For thus says the LORD concerning the house of the king of Judah: "'You are like Gilead to me, like the summit of Lebanon, yet surely I will make you a desert, an uninhabited city.
Jeremiah	22:7	I will prepare destroyers against you, each with his weapons, and they shall cut down your choicest cedars and cast them into the fire.
Jeremiah	22:8	"'And many nations will pass by this city, and every man will say to his neighbor, "Why has the LORD dealt thus with this great city?"
Jeremiah	22:9	And they will answer, "Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God and worshiped other gods and served them."'"
Jeremiah	22:10	Weep not for him who is dead, nor grieve for him, but weep bitterly for him who goes away, for he shall return no more to see his native land.
Jeremiah	22:11	For thus says the LORD concerning Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father, and who went away from this place: "He shall return here no more,
Jeremiah	22:12	but in the place where they have carried him captive, there shall he die, and he shall never see this land again."
Jeremiah	22:13	"Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, and his upper rooms by injustice, who makes his neighbor serve him for nothing and does not give him his wages,
Jeremiah	22:14	who says, 'I will build myself a great house with spacious upper rooms,' who cuts out windows for it, paneling it with cedar and painting it with vermilion.
Jeremiah	22:15	Do you think you are a king because you compete in cedar? Did not your father eat and drink and do justice and righteousness? Then it was well with him.
Jeremiah	22:16	He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well. Is not this to know me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	22:17	But you have eyes and heart only for your dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood, and for practicing oppression and violence."
Jeremiah	22:18	Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah: "They shall not lament for him, saying, 'Ah, my brother!' or 'Ah, sister!' They shall not lament for him, saying, 'Ah, lord!' or 'Ah, his majesty!'
Jeremiah	22:19	With the burial of a donkey he shall be buried, dragged and dumped beyond the gates of Jerusalem."
Jeremiah	22:20	"Go up to Lebanon, and cry out, and lift up your voice in Bashan; cry out from Abarim, for all your lovers are destroyed.
Jeremiah	22:21	I spoke to you in your prosperity, but you said, 'I will not listen.' This has been your way from your youth, that you have not obeyed my voice.
Jeremiah	22:22	The wind shall shepherd all your shepherds, and your lovers shall go into captivity; then you will be ashamed and confounded because of all your evil.
Jeremiah	22:23	O inhabitant of Lebanon, nested among the cedars, how you will be pitied when pangs come upon you, pain as of a woman in labor!"
Jeremiah	22:24	"As I live, declares the LORD, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were the signet ring on my right hand, yet I would tear you off
Jeremiah	22:25	and give you into the hand of those who seek your life, into the hand of those of whom you are afraid, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah	22:26	I will hurl you and the mother who bore you into another country, where you were not born, and there you shall die.
Jeremiah	22:27	But to the land to which they will long to return, there they shall not return."
Jeremiah	22:28	Is this man Coniah a despised, broken pot, a vessel no one cares for? Why are he and his children hurled and cast into a land that they do not know?
Jeremiah	22:29	O land, land, land, hear the word of the LORD!
Jeremiah	22:30	Thus says the LORD: "Write this man down as childless, a man who shall not succeed in his days, for none of his offspring shall succeed in sitting on the throne of David and ruling again in Judah."
Jeremiah	23:1	"Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture!" declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:2	Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people: "You have scattered my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:3	Then I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and I will bring them back to their fold, and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
Jeremiah	23:4	I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:5	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jeremiah	23:6	In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: 'The LORD is our righteousness.'
Jeremiah	23:7	"Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when they shall no longer say, 'As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,'
Jeremiah	23:8	but 'As the LORD lives who brought up and led the offspring of the house of Israel out of the north country and out of all the countries where he had driven them.' Then they shall dwell in their own land."
Jeremiah	23:9	Concerning the prophets: My heart is broken within me; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the LORD and because of his holy words.
Jeremiah	23:10	For the land is full of adulterers; because of the curse the land mourns, and the pastures of the wilderness are dried up. Their course is evil, and their might is not right.
Jeremiah	23:11	"Both prophet and priest are ungodly; even in my house I have found their evil, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:12	Therefore their way shall be to them like slippery paths in the darkness, into which they shall be driven and fall, for I will bring disaster upon them in the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:13	In the prophets of Samaria I saw an unsavory thing: they prophesied by Baal and led my people Israel astray.
Jeremiah	23:14	But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah."
Jeremiah	23:15	Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets: "Behold, I will feed them with bitter food and give them poisoned water to drink, for from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all the land."
Jeremiah	23:16	Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:17	They say continually to those who despise the word of the LORD, 'It shall be well with you'; and to everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, 'No disaster shall come upon you.'"
Jeremiah	23:18	For who among them has stood in the council of the LORD to see and to hear his word, or who has paid attention to his word and listened?
Jeremiah	23:19	Behold, the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah	23:20	The anger of the LORD will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intents of his heart. In the latter days you will understand it clearly.
Jeremiah	23:21	"I did not send the prophets, yet they ran; I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied.
Jeremiah	23:22	But if they had stood in my council, then they would have proclaimed my words to my people, and they would have turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their deeds.
Jeremiah	23:23	"Am I a God at hand, declares the LORD, and not a God afar off?
Jeremiah	23:24	Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? declares the LORD. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:25	I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy lies in my name, saying, 'I have dreamed, I have dreamed!'
Jeremiah	23:26	How long shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, and who prophesy the deceit of their own heart,
Jeremiah	23:27	who think to make my people forget my name by their dreams that they tell one another, even as their fathers forgot my name for Baal?
Jeremiah	23:28	Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream, but let him who has my word speak my word faithfully. What has straw in common with wheat? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:29	Is not my word like fire, declares the LORD, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
Jeremiah	23:30	Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who steal my words from one another.
Jeremiah	23:31	Behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who use their tongues and declare, 'declares the LORD.'
Jeremiah	23:32	Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the LORD, and who tell them and lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness, when I did not send them or charge them. So they do not profit this people at all, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	23:33	"When one of this people, or a prophet or a priest asks you, 'What is the burden of the LORD?' you shall say to them, 'You are the burden, and I will cast you off, declares the LORD.'
Jeremiah	23:34	And as for the prophet, priest, or one of the people who says, 'The burden of the LORD,' I will punish that man and his household.
Jeremiah	23:35	Thus shall you say, every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother, 'What has the LORD answered?' or 'What has the LORD spoken?'
Jeremiah	23:36	But 'the burden of the LORD' you shall mention no more, for the burden is every man's own word, and you pervert the words of the living God, the LORD of hosts, our God.
Jeremiah	23:37	Thus you shall say to the prophet, 'What has the LORD answered you?' or 'What has the LORD spoken?'
Jeremiah	23:38	But if you say, 'The burden of the LORD,' thus says the LORD, 'Because you have said these words, "The burden of the LORD," when I sent to you, saying, "You shall not say, 'The burden of the LORD,'"
Jeremiah	23:39	therefore, behold, I will surely lift you up and cast you away from my presence, you and the city that I gave to you and your fathers.
Jeremiah	23:40	And I will bring upon you everlasting reproach and perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.'"
Jeremiah	24:1	After Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had taken into exile from Jerusalem Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, together with the officials of Judah, the craftsmen, and the metal workers, and had brought them to Babylon, the LORD showed me this vision: behold, two baskets of figs placed before the temple of the LORD.
Jeremiah	24:2	One basket had very good figs, like first-ripe figs, but the other basket had very bad figs, so bad that they could not be eaten.
Jeremiah	24:3	And the LORD said to me, "What do you see, Jeremiah?" I said, "Figs, the good figs very good, and the bad figs very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten."
Jeremiah	24:4	Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah	24:5	"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Like these good figs, so I will regard as good the exiles from Judah, whom I have sent away from this place to the land of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah	24:6	I will set my eyes on them for good, and I will bring them back to this land. I will build them up, and not tear them down; I will plant them, and not uproot them.
Jeremiah	24:7	I will give them a heart to know that I am the LORD, and they shall be my people and I will be their God, for they shall return to me with their whole heart.
Jeremiah	24:8	"But thus says the LORD: Like the bad figs that are so bad they cannot be eaten, so will I treat Zedekiah the king of Judah, his officials, the remnant of Jerusalem who remain in this land, and those who dwell in the land of Egypt.
Jeremiah	24:9	I will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a reproach, a byword, a taunt, and a curse in all the places where I shall drive them.
Jeremiah	24:10	And I will send sword, famine, and pestilence upon them, until they shall be utterly destroyed from the land that I gave to them and their fathers."
Jeremiah	25:1	The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah (that was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon),
Jeremiah	25:2	which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem:
Jeremiah	25:3	"For twenty-three years, from the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, to this day, the word of the LORD has come to me, and I have spoken persistently to you, but you have not listened.
Jeremiah	25:4	You have neither listened nor inclined your ears to hear, although the LORD persistently sent to you all his servants the prophets,
Jeremiah	25:5	saying, 'Turn now, every one of you, from his evil way and evil deeds, and dwell upon the land that the LORD has given to you and your fathers from of old and forever.
Jeremiah	25:6	Do not go after other gods to serve and worship them, or provoke me to anger with the work of your hands. Then I will do you no harm.'
Jeremiah	25:7	Yet you have not listened to me, declares the LORD, that you might provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own harm.
Jeremiah	25:8	"Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: Because you have not obeyed my words,
Jeremiah	25:9	behold, I will send for all the tribes of the north, declares the LORD, and for Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants, and against all these surrounding nations. I will devote them to destruction, and make them a horror, a hissing, and an everlasting desolation.
Jeremiah	25:10	Moreover, I will banish from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the grinding of the millstones and the light of the lamp.
Jeremiah	25:11	This whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.
Jeremiah	25:12	Then after seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans, for their iniquity, declares the LORD, making the land an everlasting waste.
Jeremiah	25:13	I will bring upon that land all the words that I have uttered against it, everything written in this book, which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations.
Jeremiah	25:14	For many nations and great kings shall make slaves even of them, and I will recompense them according to their deeds and the work of their hands."
Jeremiah	25:15	Thus the LORD, the God of Israel, said to me: "Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink it.
Jeremiah	25:16	They shall drink and stagger and be crazed because of the sword that I am sending among them."
Jeremiah	25:17	So I took the cup from the LORD's hand, and made all the nations to whom the LORD sent me drink it:
Jeremiah	25:18	Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, its kings and officials, to make them a desolation and a waste, a hissing and a curse, as at this day;
Jeremiah	25:19	Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his officials, all his people,
Jeremiah	25:20	and all the mixed tribes among them; all the kings of the land of Uz and all the kings of the land of the Philistines (Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod);
Jeremiah	25:21	Edom, Moab, and the sons of Ammon;
Jeremiah	25:22	all the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the coastland across the sea;
Jeremiah	25:23	Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all who cut the corners of their hair;
Jeremiah	25:24	all the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the mixed tribes who dwell in the desert;
Jeremiah	25:25	all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media;
Jeremiah	25:26	all the kings of the north, far and near, one after another, and all the kingdoms of the world that are on the face of the earth. And after them the king of Babylon shall drink.
Jeremiah	25:27	"Then you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Drink, be drunk and vomit, fall and rise no more, because of the sword that I am sending among you.'
Jeremiah	25:28	"And if they refuse to accept the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts: You must drink!
Jeremiah	25:29	For behold, I begin to work disaster at the city that is called by my name, and shall you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, for I am summoning a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth, declares the LORD of hosts.'
Jeremiah	25:30	"You, therefore, shall prophesy against them all these words, and say to them: "'The LORD will roar from on high, and from his holy habitation utter his voice; he will roar mightily against his fold, and shout, like those who tread grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
Jeremiah	25:31	The clamor will resound to the ends of the earth, for the LORD has an indictment against the nations; he is entering into judgment with all flesh, and the wicked he will put to the sword, declares the LORD.'
Jeremiah	25:32	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, disaster is going forth from nation to nation, and a great tempest is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth!
Jeremiah	25:33	"And those pierced by the LORD on that day shall extend from one end of the earth to the other. They shall not be lamented, or gathered, or buried; they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.
Jeremiah	25:34	"Wail, you shepherds, and cry out, and roll in ashes, you lords of the flock, for the days of your slaughter and dispersion have come, and you shall fall like a choice vessel.
Jeremiah	25:35	No refuge will remain for the shepherds, nor escape for the lords of the flock.
Jeremiah	25:36	A voice--the cry of the shepherds, and the wail of the lords of the flock! For the LORD is laying waste their pasture,
Jeremiah	25:37	and the peaceful folds are devastated because of the fierce anger of the LORD.
Jeremiah	25:38	Like a lion he has left his lair, for their land has become a waste because of the sword of the oppressor, and because of his fierce anger."
Jeremiah	26:1	In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came from the LORD:
Jeremiah	26:2	"Thus says the LORD: Stand in the court of the LORD's house, and speak to all the cities of Judah that come to worship in the house of the LORD all the words that I command you to speak to them; do not hold back a word.
Jeremiah	26:3	It may be they will listen, and every one turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the disaster that I intend to do to them because of their evil deeds.
Jeremiah	26:4	You shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law that I have set before you,
Jeremiah	26:5	and to listen to the words of my servants the prophets whom I send to you urgently, though you have not listened,
Jeremiah	26:6	then I will make this house like Shiloh, and I will make this city a curse for all the nations of the earth.'"
Jeremiah	26:7	The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah	26:8	And when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that the LORD had commanded him to speak to all the people, then the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold of him, saying, "You shall die!
Jeremiah	26:9	Why have you prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, 'This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate, without inhabitant'?" And all the people gathered around Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah	26:10	When the officials of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house to the house of the LORD and took their seat in the entry of the New Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah	26:11	Then the priests and the prophets said to the officials and to all the people, "This man deserves the sentence of death, because he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your own ears."
Jeremiah	26:12	Then Jeremiah spoke to all the officials and all the people, saying, "The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and this city all the words you have heard.
Jeremiah	26:13	Now therefore mend your ways and your deeds, and obey the voice of the LORD your God, and the LORD will relent of the disaster that he has pronounced against you.
Jeremiah	26:14	But as for me, behold, I am in your hands. Do with me as seems good and right to you.
Jeremiah	26:15	Only know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and upon this city and its inhabitants, for in truth the LORD sent me to you to speak all these words in your ears."
Jeremiah	26:16	Then the officials and all the people said to the priests and the prophets, "This man does not deserve the sentence of death, for he has spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God."
Jeremiah	26:17	And certain of the elders of the land arose and spoke to all the assembled people, saying,
Jeremiah	26:18	"Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and said to all the people of Judah: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, "'Zion shall be plowed as a field; Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height.'
Jeremiah	26:19	Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? Did he not fear the LORD and entreat the favor of the LORD, and did not the LORD relent of the disaster that he had pronounced against them? But we are about to bring great disaster upon ourselves."
Jeremiah	26:20	There was another man who prophesied in the name of the LORD, Uriah the son of Shemaiah from Kiriath-jearim. He prophesied against this city and against this land in words like those of Jeremiah.
Jeremiah	26:21	And when King Jehoiakim, with all his warriors and all the officials, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death. But when Uriah heard of it, he was afraid and fled and escaped to Egypt.
Jeremiah	26:22	Then King Jehoiakim sent to Egypt certain men, Elnathan the son of Achbor and others with him,
Jeremiah	26:23	and they took Uriah from Egypt and brought him to King Jehoiakim, who struck him down with the sword and dumped his dead body into the burial place of the common people.
Jeremiah	26:24	But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah so that he was not given over to the people to be put to death.
Jeremiah	27:1	In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD.
Jeremiah	27:2	Thus the LORD said to me: "Make yourself straps and yoke-bars, and put them on your neck.
Jeremiah	27:3	Send word to the king of Edom, the king of Moab, the king of the sons of Ammon, the king of Tyre, and the king of Sidon by the hand of the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jeremiah	27:4	Give them this charge for their masters: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: This is what you shall say to your masters:
Jeremiah	27:5	"It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth, with the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me.
Jeremiah	27:6	Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him.
Jeremiah	27:7	All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson, until the time of his own land comes. Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave.
Jeremiah	27:8	"'"But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will punish that nation with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence, declares the LORD, until I have consumed it by his hand.
Jeremiah	27:9	So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your dreamers, your fortune-tellers, or your sorcerers, who are saying to you, 'You shall not serve the king of Babylon.'
Jeremiah	27:10	For it is a lie that they are prophesying to you, with the result that you will be removed far from your land, and I will drive you out, and you will perish.
Jeremiah	27:11	But any nation that will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave on its own land, to work it and dwell there, declares the LORD."'"
Jeremiah	27:12	To Zedekiah king of Judah I spoke in like manner: "Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people and live.
Jeremiah	27:13	Why will you and your people die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, as the LORD has spoken concerning any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?
Jeremiah	27:14	Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are saying to you, 'You shall not serve the king of Babylon,' for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jeremiah	27:15	I have not sent them, declares the LORD, but they are prophesying falsely in my name, with the result that I will drive you out and you will perish, you and the prophets who are prophesying to you."
Jeremiah	27:16	Then I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, "Thus says the LORD: Do not listen to the words of your prophets who are prophesying to you, saying, 'Behold, the vessels of the LORD's house will now shortly be brought back from Babylon,' for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jeremiah	27:17	Do not listen to them; serve the king of Babylon and live. Why should this city become a desolation?
Jeremiah	27:18	If they are prophets, and if the word of the LORD is with them, then let them intercede with the LORD of hosts, that the vessels that are left in the house of the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem may not go to Babylon.
Jeremiah	27:19	For thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, the sea, the stands, and the rest of the vessels that are left in this city,
Jeremiah	27:20	which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take away, when he took into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem--
Jeremiah	27:21	thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem:
Jeremiah	27:22	They shall be carried to Babylon and remain there until the day when I visit them, declares the LORD. Then I will bring them back and restore them to this place."
Jeremiah	28:1	In that same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fifth month of the fourth year, Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying,
Jeremiah	28:2	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah	28:3	Within two years I will bring back to this place all the vessels of the LORD's house, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon.
Jeremiah	28:4	I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles from Judah who went to Babylon, declares the LORD, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon."
Jeremiah	28:5	Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to Hananiah the prophet in the presence of the priests and all the people who were standing in the house of the LORD,
Jeremiah	28:6	and the prophet Jeremiah said, "Amen! May the LORD do so; may the LORD make the words that you have prophesied come true, and bring back to this place from Babylon the vessels of the house of the LORD, and all the exiles.
Jeremiah	28:7	Yet hear now this word that I speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people.
Jeremiah	28:8	The prophets who preceded you and me from ancient times prophesied war, famine, and pestilence against many countries and great kingdoms.
Jeremiah	28:9	As for the prophet who prophesies peace, when the word of that prophet comes to pass, then it will be known that the LORD has truly sent the prophet."
Jeremiah	28:10	Then the prophet Hananiah took the yoke-bars from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke them.
Jeremiah	28:11	And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, "Thus says the LORD: Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all the nations within two years." But Jeremiah the prophet went his way.
Jeremiah	28:12	Sometime after the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke-bars from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	28:13	"Go, tell Hananiah, 'Thus says the LORD: You have broken wooden bars, but you have made in their place bars of iron.
Jeremiah	28:14	For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put upon the neck of all these nations an iron yoke to serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they shall serve him, for I have given to him even the beasts of the field.'"
Jeremiah	28:15	And Jeremiah the prophet said to the prophet Hananiah, "Listen, Hananiah, the LORD has not sent you, and you have made this people trust in a lie.
Jeremiah	28:16	Therefore thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will remove you from the face of the earth. This year you shall die, because you have uttered rebellion against the LORD.'"
Jeremiah	28:17	In that same year, in the seventh month, the prophet Hananiah died.
Jeremiah	29:1	These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the surviving elders of the exiles, and to the priests, the prophets, and all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.
Jeremiah	29:2	This was after King Jeconiah and the queen mother, the eunuchs, the officials of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the metal workers had departed from Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	29:3	The letter was sent by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. It said:
Jeremiah	29:4	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jeremiah	29:5	Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce.
Jeremiah	29:6	Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease.
Jeremiah	29:7	But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the LORD on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare.
Jeremiah	29:8	For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Do not let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams that they dream,
Jeremiah	29:9	for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you in my name; I did not send them, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	29:10	"For thus says the LORD: When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place.
Jeremiah	29:11	For I know the plans I have for you, declares the LORD, plans for wholeness and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.
Jeremiah	29:12	Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you.
Jeremiah	29:13	You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all your heart,
Jeremiah	29:14	I will be found by you, declares the LORD, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.
Jeremiah	29:15	"Because you have said, 'The LORD has raised up prophets for us in Babylon,'
Jeremiah	29:16	thus says the LORD concerning the king who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your kinsmen who did not go out with you into exile:
Jeremiah	29:17	'Thus says the LORD of hosts, behold, I am sending on them sword, famine, and pestilence, and I will make them like vile figs that are so rotten they cannot be eaten.
Jeremiah	29:18	I will pursue them with sword, famine, and pestilence, and will make them a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, a terror, a hissing, and a reproach among all the nations where I have driven them,
Jeremiah	29:19	because they did not pay attention to my words, declares the LORD, that I persistently sent to you by my servants the prophets, but you would not listen, declares the LORD.'
Jeremiah	29:20	Hear the word of the LORD, all you exiles whom I sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jeremiah	29:21	'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah and Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying a lie to you in my name: Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall strike them down before your eyes.
Jeremiah	29:22	Because of them this curse shall be used by all the exiles from Judah in Babylon: "The LORD make you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire,"
Jeremiah	29:23	because they have done an outrageous thing in Israel, they have committed adultery with their neighbors' wives, and they have spoken in my name lying words that I did not command them. I am the one who knows, and I am witness, declares the LORD.'"
Jeremiah	29:24	To Shemaiah of Nehelam you shall say:
Jeremiah	29:25	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have sent letters in your name to all the people who are in Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
Jeremiah	29:26	'The LORD has made you priest instead of Jehoiada the priest, to have charge in the house of the LORD over every madman who prophesies, to put him in the stocks and neck irons.
Jeremiah	29:27	Now why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth who is prophesying to you?
Jeremiah	29:28	For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, "Your exile will be long; build houses and live in them, and plant gardens and eat their produce."'"
Jeremiah	29:29	Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet.
Jeremiah	29:30	Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	29:31	"Send to all the exiles, saying, 'Thus says the LORD concerning Shemaiah of Nehelam: Because Shemaiah had prophesied to you when I did not send him, and has made you trust in a lie,
Jeremiah	29:32	therefore thus says the LORD: Behold, I will punish Shemaiah of Nehelam and his descendants. He shall not have anyone living among this people, and he shall not see the good that I will do to my people, declares the LORD, for he has spoken rebellion against the LORD.'"
Jeremiah	30:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	30:2	"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you.
Jeremiah	30:3	For behold, days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel and Judah, says the LORD, and I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall take possession of it."
Jeremiah	30:4	These are the words that the LORD spoke concerning Israel and Judah:
Jeremiah	30:5	"Thus says the LORD: We have heard a cry of panic, of terror, and no peace.
Jeremiah	30:6	Ask now, and see, can a man bear a child? Why then do I see every man with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor? Why has every face turned pale?
Jeremiah	30:7	Alas! That day is so great there is none like it; it is a time of distress for Jacob; yet he shall be saved out of it.
Jeremiah	30:8	"And it shall come to pass in that day, declares the LORD of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off your neck, and I will burst your bonds, and foreigners shall no more make a servant of him.
Jeremiah	30:9	But they shall serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
Jeremiah	30:10	"Then fear not, O Jacob my servant, declares the LORD, nor be dismayed, O Israel; for behold, I will save you from far away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none shall make him afraid.
Jeremiah	30:11	For I am with you to save you, declares the LORD; I will make a full end of all the nations among whom I scattered you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished.
Jeremiah	30:12	"For thus says the LORD: Your hurt is incurable, and your wound is grievous.
Jeremiah	30:13	There is none to uphold your cause, no medicine for your wound, no healing for you.
Jeremiah	30:14	All your lovers have forgotten you; they care nothing for you; for I have dealt you the blow of an enemy, the punishment of a merciless foe, because your guilt is great, because your sins are flagrant.
Jeremiah	30:15	Why do you cry out over your hurt? Your pain is incurable. Because your guilt is great, because your sins are flagrant, I have done these things to you.
Jeremiah	30:16	Therefore all who devour you shall be devoured, and all your foes, every one of them, shall go into captivity; those who plunder you shall be plundered, and all who prey on you I will make a prey.
Jeremiah	30:17	For I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal, declares the LORD, because they have called you an outcast: 'It is Zion, for whom no one cares!'
Jeremiah	30:18	"Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob and have compassion on his dwellings; the city shall be rebuilt on its mound, and the palace shall stand where it used to be.
Jeremiah	30:19	Out of them shall come songs of thanksgiving, and the voices of those who celebrate. I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will make them honored, and they shall not be small.
Jeremiah	30:20	Their children shall be as they were of old, and their congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all who oppress them.
Jeremiah	30:21	Their prince shall be one of themselves; their ruler shall come out from their midst; I will make him draw near, and he shall approach me, for who would dare of himself to approach me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	30:22	And you shall be my people, and I will be your God."
Jeremiah	30:23	Behold the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah	30:24	The fierce anger of the LORD will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intentions of his mind. In the latter days you will understand this.
Jeremiah	31:1	"At that time, declares the LORD, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people."
Jeremiah	31:2	Thus says the LORD: "The people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness; when Israel sought for rest,
Jeremiah	31:3	the LORD appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you.
Jeremiah	31:4	Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin Israel! Again you shall adorn yourself with tambourines and shall go forth in the dance of the merrymakers.
Jeremiah	31:5	Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant and shall enjoy the fruit.
Jeremiah	31:6	For there shall be a day when watchmen will call in the hill country of Ephraim: 'Arise, and let us go up to Zion, to the LORD our God.'"
Jeremiah	31:7	For thus says the LORD: "Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, and raise shouts for the chief of the nations; proclaim, give praise, and say, 'O LORD, save your people, the remnant of Israel.'
Jeremiah	31:8	Behold, I will bring them from the north country and gather them from the farthest parts of the earth, among them the blind and the lame, the pregnant woman and she who is in labor, together; a great company, they shall return here.
Jeremiah	31:9	With weeping they shall come, and with pleas for mercy I will lead them back, I will make them walk by brooks of water, in a straight path in which they shall not stumble, for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
Jeremiah	31:10	"Hear the word of the LORD, O nations, and declare it in the coastlands far away; say, 'He who scattered Israel will gather him, and will keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock.'
Jeremiah	31:11	For the LORD has ransomed Jacob and has redeemed him from hands too strong for him.
Jeremiah	31:12	They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion, and they shall be radiant over the goodness of the LORD, over the grain, the wine, and the oil, and over the young of the flock and the herd; their life shall be like a watered garden, and they shall languish no more.
Jeremiah	31:13	Then shall the young women rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old shall be merry. I will turn their mourning into joy; I will comfort them, and give them gladness for sorrow.
Jeremiah	31:14	I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	31:15	Thus says the LORD: "A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more."
Jeremiah	31:16	Thus says the LORD: "Keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your work, declares the LORD, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy.
Jeremiah	31:17	There is hope for your future, declares the LORD, and your children shall come back to their own country.
Jeremiah	31:18	I have heard Ephraim grieving, 'You have disciplined me, and I was disciplined, like an untrained calf; bring me back that I may be restored, for you are the LORD my God.
Jeremiah	31:19	For after I had turned away, I relented, and after I was instructed, I slapped my thigh; I was ashamed, and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.'
Jeremiah	31:20	Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	31:21	"Set up road markers for yourself; make yourself guideposts; consider well the highway, the road by which you went. Return, O virgin Israel, return to these your cities.
Jeremiah	31:22	How long will you waver, O faithless daughter? For the LORD has created a new thing on the earth: a woman encircles a man."
Jeremiah	31:23	Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Once more they shall use these words in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I restore their fortunes: "'The LORD bless you, O habitation of righteousness, O holy hill!'
Jeremiah	31:24	And Judah and all its cities shall dwell there together, and the farmers and those who wander with their flocks.
Jeremiah	31:25	For I will satisfy the weary soul, and every languishing soul I will replenish."
Jeremiah	31:26	At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me.
Jeremiah	31:27	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and the seed of beast.
Jeremiah	31:28	And it shall come to pass that as I have watched over them to pluck up and break down, to overthrow, destroy, and bring harm, so I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	31:29	In those days they shall no longer say: "'The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.'
Jeremiah	31:30	But everyone shall die for his own sin. Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
Jeremiah	31:31	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah,
Jeremiah	31:32	not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	31:33	But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the LORD: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Jeremiah	31:34	And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the LORD. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more."
Jeremiah	31:35	Thus says the LORD, who gives the sun for light by day and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar--the LORD of hosts is his name:
Jeremiah	31:36	"If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the LORD, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever."
Jeremiah	31:37	Thus says the LORD: "If the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	31:38	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when the city shall be rebuilt for the LORD from the tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate.
Jeremiah	31:39	And the measuring line shall go out farther, straight to the hill Gareb, and shall then turn to Goah.
Jeremiah	31:40	The whole valley of the dead bodies and the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, shall be sacred to the LORD. It shall not be uprooted or overthrown anymore forever."
Jeremiah	32:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar.
Jeremiah	32:2	At that time the army of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the guard that was in the palace of the king of Judah.
Jeremiah	32:3	For Zedekiah king of Judah had imprisoned him, saying, "Why do you prophesy and say, 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall capture it;
Jeremiah	32:4	Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him face to face and see him eye to eye.
Jeremiah	32:5	And he shall take Zedekiah to Babylon, and there he shall remain until I visit him, declares the LORD. Though you fight against the Chaldeans, you shall not succeed'?"
Jeremiah	32:6	Jeremiah said, "The word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah	32:7	Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle will come to you and say, 'Buy my field that is at Anathoth, for the right of redemption by purchase is yours.'
Jeremiah	32:8	Then Hanamel my cousin came to me in the court of the guard, in accordance with the word of the LORD, and said to me, 'Buy my field that is at Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, for the right of possession and redemption is yours; buy it for yourself.' Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.
Jeremiah	32:9	"And I bought the field at Anathoth from Hanamel my cousin, and weighed out the money to him, seventeen shekels of silver.
Jeremiah	32:10	I signed the deed, sealed it, got witnesses, and weighed the money on scales.
Jeremiah	32:11	Then I took the sealed deed of purchase, containing the terms and conditions and the open copy.
Jeremiah	32:12	And I gave the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah son of Mahseiah, in the presence of Hanamel my cousin, in the presence of the witnesses who signed the deed of purchase, and in the presence of all the Judeans who were sitting in the court of the guard.
Jeremiah	32:13	I charged Baruch in their presence, saying,
Jeremiah	32:14	'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, both this sealed deed of purchase and this open deed, and put them in an earthenware vessel, that they may last for a long time.
Jeremiah	32:15	For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall again be bought in this land.'
Jeremiah	32:16	"After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to the LORD, saying:
Jeremiah	32:17	'Ah, Lord GOD! It is you who has made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm! Nothing is too hard for you.
Jeremiah	32:18	You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them, O great and mighty God, whose name is the LORD of hosts,
Jeremiah	32:19	great in counsel and mighty in deed, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man, rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds.
Jeremiah	32:20	You have shown signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and to this day in Israel and among all mankind, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day.
Jeremiah	32:21	You brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and wonders, with a strong hand and outstretched arm, and with great terror.
Jeremiah	32:22	And you gave them this land, which you swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Jeremiah	32:23	And they entered and took possession of it. But they did not obey your voice or walk in your law. They did nothing of all you commanded them to do. Therefore you have made all this disaster come upon them.
Jeremiah	32:24	Behold, the siege mounds have come up to the city to take it, and because of sword and famine and pestilence the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans who are fighting against it. What you spoke has come to pass, and behold, you see it.
Jeremiah	32:25	Yet you, O Lord GOD, have said to me, "Buy the field for money and get witnesses"--though the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans.'"
Jeremiah	32:26	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	32:27	"Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh. Is anything too hard for me?
Jeremiah	32:28	Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeans and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall capture it.
Jeremiah	32:29	The Chaldeans who are fighting against this city shall come and set this city on fire and burn it, with the houses on whose roofs offerings have been made to Baal and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
Jeremiah	32:30	For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight from their youth. The children of Israel have done nothing but provoke me to anger by the work of their hands, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	32:31	This city has aroused my anger and wrath, from the day it was built to this day, so that I will remove it from my sight
Jeremiah	32:32	because of all the evil of the children of Israel and the children of Judah that they did to provoke me to anger--their kings and their officials, their priests and their prophets, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	32:33	They have turned to me their back and not their face. And though I have taught them persistently, they have not listened to receive instruction.
Jeremiah	32:34	They set up their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to defile it.
Jeremiah	32:35	They built the high places of Baal in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to offer up their sons and daughters to Molech, though I did not command them, nor did it enter into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin.
Jeremiah	32:36	"Now therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say, 'It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence':
Jeremiah	32:37	Behold, I will gather them from all the countries to which I drove them in my anger and my wrath and in great indignation. I will bring them back to this place, and I will make them dwell in safety.
Jeremiah	32:38	And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Jeremiah	32:39	I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their own good and the good of their children after them.
Jeremiah	32:40	I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me.
Jeremiah	32:41	I will rejoice in doing them good, and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness, with all my heart and all my soul.
Jeremiah	32:42	"For thus says the LORD: Just as I have brought all this great disaster upon this people, so I will bring upon them all the good that I promise them.
Jeremiah	32:43	Fields shall be bought in this land of which you are saying, 'It is a desolation, without man or beast; it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.'
Jeremiah	32:44	Fields shall be bought for money, and deeds shall be signed and sealed and witnessed, in the land of Benjamin, in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negeb; for I will restore their fortunes, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	33:1	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah a second time, while he was still shut up in the court of the guard:
Jeremiah	33:2	"Thus says the LORD who made the earth, the LORD who formed it to establish it--the LORD is his name:
Jeremiah	33:3	Call to me and I will answer you, and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known.
Jeremiah	33:4	For thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah that were torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and against the sword:
Jeremiah	33:5	They are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I shall strike down in my anger and my wrath, for I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil.
Jeremiah	33:6	Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security.
Jeremiah	33:7	I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel, and rebuild them as they were at first.
Jeremiah	33:8	I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me.
Jeremiah	33:9	And this city shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and a glory before all the nations of the earth who shall hear of all the good that I do for them. They shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the prosperity I provide for it.
Jeremiah	33:10	"Thus says the LORD: In this place of which you say, 'It is a waste without man or beast,' in the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man or inhabitant or beast, there shall be heard again
Jeremiah	33:11	the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who sing, as they bring thank offerings to the house of the LORD: "'Give thanks to the LORD of hosts, for the LORD is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!'For I will restore the fortunes of the land as at first, says the LORD.
Jeremiah	33:12	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: In this place that is waste, without man or beast, and in all of its cities, there shall again be habitations of shepherds resting their flocks.
Jeremiah	33:13	In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negeb, in the land of Benjamin, the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, flocks shall again pass under the hands of the one who counts them, says the LORD.
Jeremiah	33:14	"Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah.
Jeremiah	33:15	In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous Branch to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jeremiah	33:16	In those days Judah will be saved and Jerusalem will dwell securely. And this is the name by which it will be called: 'The LORD is our righteousness.'
Jeremiah	33:17	"For thus says the LORD: David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel,
Jeremiah	33:18	and the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to make sacrifices forever."
Jeremiah	33:19	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	33:20	"Thus says the LORD: If you can break my covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so that day and night will not come at their appointed time,
Jeremiah	33:21	then also my covenant with David my servant may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests my ministers.
Jeremiah	33:22	As the host of heaven cannot be numbered and the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring of David my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me."
Jeremiah	33:23	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	33:24	"Have you not observed that these people are saying, 'The LORD has rejected the two clans that he chose'? Thus they have despised my people so that they are no longer a nation in their sight.
Jeremiah	33:25	Thus says the LORD: If I have not established my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of heaven and earth,
Jeremiah	33:26	then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David my servant and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them."
Jeremiah	34:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion and all the peoples were fighting against Jerusalem and all of its cities:
Jeremiah	34:2	"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah and say to him, 'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
Jeremiah	34:3	You shall not escape from his hand but shall surely be captured and delivered into his hand. You shall see the king of Babylon eye to eye and speak with him face to face. And you shall go to Babylon.'
Jeremiah	34:4	Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah! Thus says the LORD concerning you: 'You shall not die by the sword.
Jeremiah	34:5	You shall die in peace. And as spices were burned for your fathers, the former kings who were before you, so people shall burn spices for you and lament for you, saying, "Alas, lord!"' For I have spoken the word, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	34:6	Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah, in Jerusalem,
Jeremiah	34:7	when the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah that were left, Lachish and Azekah, for these were the only fortified cities of Judah that remained.
Jeremiah	34:8	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people in Jerusalem to make a proclamation of liberty to them,
Jeremiah	34:9	that everyone should set free his Hebrew slaves, male and female, so that no one should enslave a Jew, his brother.
Jeremiah	34:10	And they obeyed, all the officials and all the people who had entered into the covenant that everyone would set free his slave, male or female, so that they would not be enslaved again. They obeyed and set them free.
Jeremiah	34:11	But afterward they turned around and took back the male and female slaves they had set free, and brought them into subjection as slaves.
Jeremiah	34:12	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	34:13	"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: I myself made a covenant with your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying,
Jeremiah	34:14	'At the end of seven years each of you must set free the fellow Hebrew who has been sold to you and has served you six years; you must set him free from your service.' But your fathers did not listen to me or incline their ears to me.
Jeremiah	34:15	You recently repented and did what was right in my eyes by proclaiming liberty, each to his neighbor, and you made a covenant before me in the house that is called by my name,
Jeremiah	34:16	but then you turned around and profaned my name when each of you took back his male and female slaves, whom you had set free according to their desire, and you brought them into subjection to be your slaves.
Jeremiah	34:17	"Therefore, thus says the LORD: You have not obeyed me by proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother and to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim to you liberty to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, declares the LORD. I will make you a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
Jeremiah	34:18	And the men who transgressed my covenant and did not keep the terms of the covenant that they made before me, I will make them like the calf that they cut in two and passed between its parts--
Jeremiah	34:19	the officials of Judah, the officials of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land who passed between the parts of the calf.
Jeremiah	34:20	And I will give them into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their lives. Their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah	34:21	And Zedekiah king of Judah and his officials I will give into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their lives, into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon which has withdrawn from you.
Jeremiah	34:22	Behold, I will command, declares the LORD, and will bring them back to this city. And they will fight against it and take it and burn it with fire. I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitant."
Jeremiah	35:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah	35:2	"Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak with them and bring them to the house of the LORD, into one of the chambers; then offer them wine to drink."
Jeremiah	35:3	So I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, son of Habazziniah and his brothers and all his sons and the whole house of the Rechabites.
Jeremiah	35:4	I brought them to the house of the LORD into the chamber of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah, the man of God, which was near the chamber of the officials, above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, keeper of the threshold.
Jeremiah	35:5	Then I set before the Rechabites pitchers full of wine, and cups, and I said to them, "Drink wine."
Jeremiah	35:6	But they answered, "We will drink no wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, 'You shall not drink wine, neither you nor your sons forever.
Jeremiah	35:7	You shall not build a house; you shall not sow seed; you shall not plant or have a vineyard; but you shall live in tents all your days, that you may live many days in the land where you sojourn.'
Jeremiah	35:8	We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us, to drink no wine all our days, ourselves, our wives, our sons, or our daughters,
Jeremiah	35:9	and not to build houses to dwell in. We have no vineyard or field or seed,
Jeremiah	35:10	but we have lived in tents and have obeyed and done all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
Jeremiah	35:11	But when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against the land, we said, 'Come, and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans and the army of the Syrians.' So we are living in Jerusalem."
Jeremiah	35:12	Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	35:13	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Go and say to the people of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction and listen to my words? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	35:14	The command that Jonadab the son of Rechab gave to his sons, to drink no wine, has been kept, and they drink none to this day, for they have obeyed their father's command. I have spoken to you persistently, but you have not listened to me.
Jeremiah	35:15	I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, sending them persistently, saying, 'Turn now every one of you from his evil way, and amend your deeds, and do not go after other gods to serve them, and then you shall dwell in the land that I gave to you and your fathers.' But you did not incline your ear or listen to me.
Jeremiah	35:16	The sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have kept the command that their father gave them, but this people has not obeyed me.
Jeremiah	35:17	Therefore, thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the disaster that I have pronounced against them, because I have spoken to them and they have not listened, I have called to them and they have not answered."
Jeremiah	35:18	But to the house of the Rechabites Jeremiah said, "Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Because you have obeyed the command of Jonadab your father and kept all his precepts and done all that he commanded you,
Jeremiah	35:19	therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Jonadab the son of Rechab shall never lack a man to stand before me."
Jeremiah	36:1	In the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah	36:2	"Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah and all the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah until today.
Jeremiah	36:3	It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the disaster that I intend to do to them, so that every one may turn from his evil way, and that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin."
Jeremiah	36:4	Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote on a scroll at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD that he had spoken to him.
Jeremiah	36:5	And Jeremiah ordered Baruch, saying, "I am banned from going to the house of the LORD,
Jeremiah	36:6	so you are to go, and on a day of fasting in the hearing of all the people in the LORD's house you shall read the words of the LORD from the scroll that you have written at my dictation. You shall read them also in the hearing of all the men of Judah who come out of their cities.
Jeremiah	36:7	It may be that their plea for mercy will come before the LORD, and that every one will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and wrath that the LORD has pronounced against this people."
Jeremiah	36:8	And Baruch the son of Neriah did all that Jeremiah the prophet ordered him about reading from the scroll the words of the LORD in the LORD's house.
Jeremiah	36:9	In the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before the LORD.
Jeremiah	36:10	Then, in the hearing of all the people, Baruch read the words of Jeremiah from the scroll, in the house of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the secretary, which was in the upper court, at the entry of the New Gate of the LORD's house.
Jeremiah	36:11	When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, son of Shaphan, heard all the words of the LORD from the scroll,
Jeremiah	36:12	he went down to the king's house, into the secretary's chamber, and all the officials were sitting there: Elishama the secretary, Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, Elnathan the son of Achbor, Gemariah the son of Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the officials.
Jeremiah	36:13	And Micaiah told them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the scroll in the hearing of the people.
Jeremiah	36:14	Then all the officials sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, son of Shelemiah, son of Cushi, to say to Baruch, "Take in your hand the scroll that you read in the hearing of the people, and come." So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them.
Jeremiah	36:15	And they said to him, "Sit down and read it." So Baruch read it to them.
Jeremiah	36:16	When they heard all the words, they turned one to another in fear. And they said to Baruch, "We must report all these words to the king."
Jeremiah	36:17	Then they asked Baruch, "Tell us, please, how did you write all these words? Was it at his dictation?"
Jeremiah	36:18	Baruch answered them, "He dictated all these words to me, while I wrote them with ink on the scroll."
Jeremiah	36:19	Then the officials said to Baruch, "Go and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are."
Jeremiah	36:20	So they went into the court to the king, having put the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the secretary, and they reported all the words to the king.
Jeremiah	36:21	Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishama the secretary. And Jehudi read it to the king and all the officials who stood beside the king.
Jeremiah	36:22	It was the ninth month, and the king was sitting in the winter house, and there was a fire burning in the fire pot before him.
Jeremiah	36:23	As Jehudi read three or four columns, the king would cut them off with a knife and throw them into the fire in the fire pot, until the entire scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the fire pot.
Jeremiah	36:24	Yet neither the king nor any of his servants who heard all these words was afraid, nor did they tear their garments.
Jeremiah	36:25	Even when Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them.
Jeremiah	36:26	And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son and Seraiah the son of Azriel and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel to seize Baruch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet, but the LORD hid them.
Jeremiah	36:27	Now after the king had burned the scroll with the words that Baruch wrote at Jeremiah's dictation, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	36:28	"Take another scroll and write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah has burned.
Jeremiah	36:29	And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, 'Thus says the LORD, You have burned this scroll, saying, "Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and will cut off from it man and beast?"
Jeremiah	36:30	Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have none to sit on the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night.
Jeremiah	36:31	And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity. I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and upon the people of Judah all the disaster that I have pronounced against them, but they would not hear.'"
Jeremiah	36:32	Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote on it at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the scroll that Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire. And many similar words were added to them.
Jeremiah	37:1	Zedekiah the son of Josiah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah, reigned instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim.
Jeremiah	37:2	But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land listened to the words of the LORD that he spoke through Jeremiah the prophet.
Jeremiah	37:3	King Zedekiah sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "Please pray for us to the LORD our God."
Jeremiah	37:4	Now Jeremiah was still going in and out among the people, for he had not yet been put in prison.
Jeremiah	37:5	The army of Pharaoh had come out of Egypt. And when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news about them, they withdrew from Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	37:6	Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet:
Jeremiah	37:7	"Thus says the LORD, God of Israel: Thus shall you say to the king of Judah who sent you to me to inquire of me, 'Behold, Pharaoh's army that came to help you is about to return to Egypt, to its own land.
Jeremiah	37:8	And the Chaldeans shall come back and fight against this city. They shall capture it and burn it with fire.
Jeremiah	37:9	Thus says the LORD, Do not deceive yourselves, saying, "The Chaldeans will surely go away from us," for they will not go away.
Jeremiah	37:10	For even if you should defeat the whole army of Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and there remained of them only wounded men, every man in his tent, they would rise up and burn this city with fire.'"
Jeremiah	37:11	Now when the Chaldean army had withdrawn from Jerusalem at the approach of Pharaoh's army,
Jeremiah	37:12	Jeremiah set out from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin to receive his portion there among the people.
Jeremiah	37:13	When he was at the Benjamin Gate, a sentry there named Irijah the son of Shelemiah, son of Hananiah, seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "You are deserting to the Chaldeans."
Jeremiah	37:14	And Jeremiah said, "It is a lie; I am not deserting to the Chaldeans." But Irijah would not listen to him, and seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials.
Jeremiah	37:15	And the officials were enraged at Jeremiah, and they beat him and imprisoned him in the house of Jonathan the secretary, for it had been made a prison.
Jeremiah	37:16	When Jeremiah had come to the dungeon cells and remained there many days,
Jeremiah	37:17	King Zedekiah sent for him and received him. The king questioned him secretly in his house and said, "Is there any word from the LORD?" Jeremiah said, "There is." Then he said, "You shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon."
Jeremiah	37:18	Jeremiah also said to King Zedekiah, "What wrong have I done to you or your servants or this people, that you have put me in prison?
Jeremiah	37:19	Where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, 'The king of Babylon will not come against you and against this land'?
Jeremiah	37:20	Now hear, please, O my lord the king: let my humble plea come before you and do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the secretary, lest I die there."
Jeremiah	37:21	So King Zedekiah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard. And a loaf of bread was given him daily from the bakers' street, until all the bread of the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.
Jeremiah	38:1	Now Shephatiah the son of Mattan, Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchiah heard the words that Jeremiah was saying to all the people,
Jeremiah	38:2	"Thus says the LORD: He who stays in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live. He shall have his life as a prize of war, and live.
Jeremiah	38:3	Thus says the LORD: This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon and be taken."
Jeremiah	38:4	Then the officials said to the king, "Let this man be put to death, for he is weakening the hands of the soldiers who are left in this city, and the hands of all the people, by speaking such words to them. For this man is not seeking the welfare of this people, but their harm."
Jeremiah	38:5	King Zedekiah said, "Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you."
Jeremiah	38:6	So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malchiah, the king's son, which was in the court of the guard, letting Jeremiah down by ropes. And there was no water in the cistern, but only mud, and Jeremiah sank in the mud.
Jeremiah	38:7	When Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch who was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah into the cistern--the king was sitting in the Benjamin Gate--
Jeremiah	38:8	Ebed-melech went from the king's house and said to the king,
Jeremiah	38:9	"My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they did to Jeremiah the prophet by casting him into the cistern, and he will die there of hunger, for there is no bread left in the city."
Jeremiah	38:10	Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, "Take three men with you from here, and lift Jeremiah the prophet out of the cistern before he dies."
Jeremiah	38:11	So Ebed-melech took the men with him and went to the house of the king, to a wardrobe in the storehouse, and took from there old rags and worn-out clothes, which he let down to Jeremiah in the cistern by ropes.
Jeremiah	38:12	Then Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, "Put the rags and clothes between your armpits and the ropes." Jeremiah did so.
Jeremiah	38:13	Then they drew Jeremiah up with ropes and lifted him out of the cistern. And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.
Jeremiah	38:14	King Zedekiah sent for Jeremiah the prophet and received him at the third entrance of the temple of the LORD. The king said to Jeremiah, "I will ask you a question; hide nothing from me."
Jeremiah	38:15	Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "If I tell you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I give you counsel, you will not listen to me."
Jeremiah	38:16	Then King Zedekiah swore secretly to Jeremiah, "As the LORD lives, who made our souls, I will not put you to death or deliver you into the hand of these men who seek your life."
Jeremiah	38:17	Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "Thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: If you will surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then your life shall be spared, and this city shall not be burned with fire, and you and your house shall live.
Jeremiah	38:18	But if you do not surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then this city shall be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape from their hand."
Jeremiah	38:19	King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "I am afraid of the Judeans who have deserted to the Chaldeans, lest I be handed over to them and they deal cruelly with me."
Jeremiah	38:20	Jeremiah said, "You shall not be given to them. Obey now the voice of the LORD in what I say to you, and it shall be well with you, and your life shall be spared.
Jeremiah	38:21	But if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision which the LORD has shown to me:
Jeremiah	38:22	Behold, all the women left in the house of the king of Judah were being led out to the officials of the king of Babylon and were saying, "'Your trusted friends have deceived you and prevailed against you; now that your feet are sunk in the mud, they turn away from you.'
Jeremiah	38:23	All your wives and your sons shall be led out to the Chaldeans, and you yourself shall not escape from their hand, but shall be seized by the king of Babylon, and this city shall be burned with fire."
Jeremiah	38:24	Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "Let no one know of these words, and you shall not die.
Jeremiah	38:25	If the officials hear that I have spoken with you and come to you and say to you, 'Tell us what you said to the king and what the king said to you; hide nothing from us and we will not put you to death,'
Jeremiah	38:26	then you shall say to them, 'I made a humble plea to the king that he would not send me back to the house of Jonathan to die there.'"
Jeremiah	38:27	Then all the officials came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he answered them as the king had instructed him. So they stopped speaking with him, for the conversation had not been overheard.
Jeremiah	38:28	And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.
Jeremiah	39:1	In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army came against Jerusalem and besieged it.
Jeremiah	39:2	In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, a breach was made in the city.
Jeremiah	39:3	Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came and sat in the middle gate: Nergal-sar-ezer, Samgar-nebu, Sar-sekim the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag, with all the rest of the officers of the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah	39:4	When Zedekiah king of Judah and all the soldiers saw them, they fled, going out of the city at night by way of the king's garden through the gate between the two walls; and they went toward the Arabah.
Jeremiah	39:5	But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, at Riblah, in the land of Hamath; and he passed sentence on him.
Jeremiah	39:6	The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah at Riblah before his eyes, and the king of Babylon slaughtered all the nobles of Judah.
Jeremiah	39:7	He put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in chains to take him to Babylon.
Jeremiah	39:8	The Chaldeans burned the king's house and the house of the people, and broke down the walls of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	39:9	Then Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, carried into exile to Babylon the rest of the people who were left in the city, those who had deserted to him, and the people who remained.
Jeremiah	39:10	Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, left in the land of Judah some of the poor people who owned nothing, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.
Jeremiah	39:11	Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave command concerning Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, saying,
Jeremiah	39:12	"Take him, look after him well, and do him no harm, but deal with him as he tells you."
Jeremiah	39:13	So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, Nebushazban the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag, and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon
Jeremiah	39:14	sent and took Jeremiah from the court of the guard. They entrusted him to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, that he should take him home. So he lived among the people.
Jeremiah	39:15	The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the guard:
Jeremiah	39:16	"Go, and say to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will fulfill my words against this city for harm and not for good, and they shall be accomplished before you on that day.
Jeremiah	39:17	But I will deliver you on that day, declares the LORD, and you shall not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid.
Jeremiah	39:18	For I will surely save you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but you shall have your life as a prize of war, because you have put your trust in me, declares the LORD.'"
Jeremiah	40:1	The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he took him bound in chains along with all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were being exiled to Babylon.
Jeremiah	40:2	The captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, "The LORD your God pronounced this disaster against this place.
Jeremiah	40:3	The LORD has brought it about, and has done as he said. Because you sinned against the LORD and did not obey his voice, this thing has come upon you.
Jeremiah	40:4	Now, behold, I release you today from the chains on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will look after you well, but if it seems wrong to you to come with me to Babylon, do not come. See, the whole land is before you; go wherever you think it good and right to go.
Jeremiah	40:5	If you remain, then return to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon appointed governor of the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or go wherever you think it right to go." So the captain of the guard gave him an allowance of food and a present, and let him go.
Jeremiah	40:6	Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah, and lived with him among the people who were left in the land.
Jeremiah	40:7	When all the captains of the forces in the open country and their men heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land and had committed to him men, women, and children, those of the poorest of the land who had not been taken into exile to Babylon,
Jeremiah	40:8	they went to Gedaliah at Mizpah--Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, Johanan the son of Kareah, Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
Jeremiah	40:9	Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
Jeremiah	40:10	As for me, I will dwell at Mizpah, to represent you before the Chaldeans who will come to us. But as for you, gather wine and summer fruits and oil, and store them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken."
Jeremiah	40:11	Likewise, when all the Judeans who were in Moab and among the Ammonites and in Edom and in other lands heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah and had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, as governor over them,
Jeremiah	40:12	then all the Judeans returned from all the places to which they had been driven and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah. And they gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance.
Jeremiah	40:13	Now Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah
Jeremiah	40:14	and said to him, "Do you know that Baalis the king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to take your life?" But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam would not believe them.
Jeremiah	40:15	Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke secretly to Gedaliah at Mizpah, "Please let me go and strike down Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know it. Why should he take your life, so that all the Judeans who are gathered about you would be scattered, and the remnant of Judah would perish?"
Jeremiah	40:16	But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, "You shall not do this thing, for you are speaking falsely of Ishmael."
Jeremiah	41:1	In the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the royal family, one of the chief officers of the king, came with ten men to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah. As they ate bread together there at Mizpah,
Jeremiah	41:2	Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the ten men with him rose up and struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, with the sword, and killed him, whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor in the land.
Jeremiah	41:3	Ishmael also struck down all the Judeans who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and the Chaldean soldiers who happened to be there.
Jeremiah	41:4	On the day after the murder of Gedaliah, before anyone knew of it,
Jeremiah	41:5	eighty men arrived from Shechem and Shiloh and Samaria, with their beards shaved and their clothes torn, and their bodies gashed, bringing grain offerings and incense to present at the temple of the LORD.
Jeremiah	41:6	And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah came out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he came. As he met them, he said to them, "Come in to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam."
Jeremiah	41:7	When they came into the city, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the men with him slaughtered them and cast them into a cistern.
Jeremiah	41:8	But there were ten men among them who said to Ishmael, "Do not put us to death, for we have stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey hidden in the fields." So he refrained and did not put them to death with their companions.
Jeremiah	41:9	Now the cistern into which Ishmael had thrown all the bodies of the men whom he had struck down along with Gedaliah was the large cistern that King Asa had made for defense against Baasha king of Israel; Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with the slain.
Jeremiah	41:10	Then Ishmael took captive all the rest of the people who were in Mizpah, the king's daughters and all the people who were left at Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. Ishmael the son of Nethaniah took them captive and set out to cross over to the Ammonites.
Jeremiah	41:11	But when Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done,
Jeremiah	41:12	they took all their men and went to fight against Ishmael the son of Nethaniah. They came upon him at the great pool that is in Gibeon.
Jeremiah	41:13	And when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him, they rejoiced.
Jeremiah	41:14	So all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned around and came back, and went to Johanan the son of Kareah.
Jeremiah	41:15	But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the Ammonites.
Jeremiah	41:16	Then Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him took from Mizpah all the rest of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, after he had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam--soldiers, women, children, and eunuchs, whom Johanan brought back from Gibeon.
Jeremiah	41:17	And they went and stayed at Geruth Chimham near Bethlehem, intending to go to Egypt
Jeremiah	41:18	because of the Chaldeans. For they were afraid of them, because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.
Jeremiah	42:1	Then all the commanders of the forces, and Johanan the son of Kareah and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least to the greatest, came near
Jeremiah	42:2	and said to Jeremiah the prophet, "Let our plea for mercy come before you, and pray to the LORD your God for us, for all this remnant--because we are left with but a few, as your eyes see us--
Jeremiah	42:3	that the LORD your God may show us the way we should go, and the thing that we should do."
Jeremiah	42:4	Jeremiah the prophet said to them, "I have heard you. Behold, I will pray to the LORD your God according to your request, and whatever the LORD answers you I will tell you. I will keep nothing back from you."
Jeremiah	42:5	Then they said to Jeremiah, "May the LORD be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act according to all the word with which the LORD your God sends you to us.
Jeremiah	42:6	Whether it is good or bad, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God to whom we are sending you, that it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the LORD our God."
Jeremiah	42:7	At the end of ten days the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.
Jeremiah	42:8	Then he summoned Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces who were with him, and all the people from the least to the greatest,
Jeremiah	42:9	and said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your plea for mercy before him:
Jeremiah	42:10	If you will remain in this land, then I will build you up and not pull you down; I will plant you, and not pluck you up; for I relent of the disaster that I did to you.
Jeremiah	42:11	Do not fear the king of Babylon, of whom you are afraid. Do not fear him, declares the LORD, for I am with you, to save you and to deliver you from his hand.
Jeremiah	42:12	I will grant you mercy, that he may have mercy on you and let you remain in your own land.
Jeremiah	42:13	But if you say, 'We will not remain in this land,' disobeying the voice of the LORD your God
Jeremiah	42:14	and saying, 'No, we will go to the land of Egypt, where we shall not see war or hear the sound of the trumpet or be hungry for bread, and we will dwell there,'
Jeremiah	42:15	then hear the word of the LORD, O remnant of Judah. Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: If you set your faces to enter Egypt and go to live there,
Jeremiah	42:16	then the sword that you fear shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine of which you are afraid shall follow close after you to Egypt, and there you shall die.
Jeremiah	42:17	All the men who set their faces to go to Egypt to live there shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. They shall have no remnant or survivor from the disaster that I will bring upon them.
Jeremiah	42:18	"For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: As my anger and my wrath were poured out on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so my wrath will be poured out on you when you go to Egypt. You shall become an execration, a horror, a curse, and a taunt. You shall see this place no more.
Jeremiah	42:19	The LORD has said to you, O remnant of Judah, 'Do not go to Egypt.' Know for a certainty that I have warned you this day
Jeremiah	42:20	that you have gone astray at the cost of your lives. For you sent me to the LORD your God, saying, 'Pray for us to the LORD our God, and whatever the LORD our God says declare to us and we will do it.'
Jeremiah	42:21	And I have this day declared it to you, but you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD your God in anything that he sent me to tell you.
Jeremiah	42:22	Now therefore know for a certainty that you shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence in the place where you desire to go to live."
Jeremiah	43:1	When Jeremiah finished speaking to all the people all these words of the LORD their God, with which the LORD their God had sent him to them,
Jeremiah	43:2	Azariah the son of Hoshaiah and Johanan the son of Kareah and all the insolent men said to Jeremiah, "You are telling a lie. The LORD our God did not send you to say, 'Do not go to Egypt to live there,'
Jeremiah	43:3	but Baruch the son of Neriah has set you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they may kill us or take us into exile in Babylon."
Jeremiah	43:4	So Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces and all the people did not obey the voice of the LORD, to remain in the land of Judah.
Jeremiah	43:5	But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces took all the remnant of Judah who had returned to live in the land of Judah from all the nations to which they had been driven--
Jeremiah	43:6	the men, the women, the children, the princesses, and every person whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan; also Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch the son of Neriah.
Jeremiah	43:7	And they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the LORD. And they arrived at Tahpanhes.
Jeremiah	43:8	Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes:
Jeremiah	43:9	"Take in your hands large stones and hide them in the mortar in the pavement that is at the entrance to Pharaoh's palace in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah,
Jeremiah	43:10	and say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will set his throne above these stones that I have hidden, and he will spread his royal canopy over them.
Jeremiah	43:11	He shall come and strike the land of Egypt, giving over to the pestilence those who are doomed to the pestilence, to captivity those who are doomed to captivity, and to the sword those who are doomed to the sword.
Jeremiah	43:12	I shall kindle a fire in the temples of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burn them and carry them away captive. And he shall clean the land of Egypt as a shepherd cleans his cloak of vermin, and he shall go away from there in peace.
Jeremiah	43:13	He shall break the obelisks of Heliopolis, which is in the land of Egypt, and the temples of the gods of Egypt he shall burn with fire.'"
Jeremiah	44:1	The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Judeans who lived in the land of Egypt, at Migdol, at Tahpanhes, at Memphis, and in the land of Pathros,
Jeremiah	44:2	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the disaster that I brought upon Jerusalem and upon all the cities of Judah. Behold, this day they are a desolation, and no one dwells in them,
Jeremiah	44:3	because of the evil that they committed, provoking me to anger, in that they went to make offerings and serve other gods that they knew not, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers.
Jeremiah	44:4	Yet I persistently sent to you all my servants the prophets, saying, 'Oh, do not do this abomination that I hate!'
Jeremiah	44:5	But they did not listen or incline their ear, to turn from their evil and make no offerings to other gods.
Jeremiah	44:6	Therefore my wrath and my anger were poured out and kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, and they became a waste and a desolation, as at this day.
Jeremiah	44:7	And now thus says the LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil against yourselves, to cut off from you man and woman, infant and child, from the midst of Judah, leaving you no remnant?
Jeremiah	44:8	Why do you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, making offerings to other gods in the land of Egypt where you have come to live, so that you may be cut off and become a curse and a taunt among all the nations of the earth?
Jeremiah	44:9	Have you forgotten the evil of your fathers, the evil of the kings of Judah, the evil of their wives, your own evil, and the evil of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jeremiah	44:10	They have not humbled themselves even to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in my law and my statutes that I set before you and before your fathers.
Jeremiah	44:11	"Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for harm, to cut off all Judah.
Jeremiah	44:12	I will take the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to come to the land of Egypt to live, and they shall all be consumed. In the land of Egypt they shall fall; by the sword and by famine they shall be consumed. From the least to the greatest, they shall die by the sword and by famine, and they shall become an oath, a horror, a curse, and a taunt.
Jeremiah	44:13	I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence,
Jeremiah	44:14	so that none of the remnant of Judah who have come to live in the land of Egypt shall escape or survive or return to the land of Judah, to which they desire to return to dwell there. For they shall not return, except some fugitives."
Jeremiah	44:15	Then all the men who knew that their wives had made offerings to other gods, and all the women who stood by, a great assembly, all the people who lived in Pathros in the land of Egypt, answered Jeremiah:
Jeremiah	44:16	"As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the LORD, we will not listen to you.
Jeremiah	44:17	But we will do everything that we have vowed, make offerings to the queen of heaven and pour out drink offerings to her, as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had plenty of food, and prospered, and saw no disaster.
Jeremiah	44:18	But since we left off making offerings to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything and have been consumed by the sword and by famine."
Jeremiah	44:19	And the women said, "When we made offerings to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, was it without our husbands' approval that we made cakes for her bearing her image and poured out drink offerings to her?"
Jeremiah	44:20	Then Jeremiah said to all the people, men and women, all the people who had given him this answer:
Jeremiah	44:21	"As for the offerings that you offered in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings and your officials, and the people of the land, did not the LORD remember them? Did it not come into his mind?
Jeremiah	44:22	The LORD could no longer bear your evil deeds and the abominations that you committed. Therefore your land has become a desolation and a waste and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this day.
Jeremiah	44:23	It is because you made offerings and because you sinned against the LORD and did not obey the voice of the LORD or walk in his law and in his statutes and in his testimonies that this disaster has happened to you, as at this day."
Jeremiah	44:24	Jeremiah said to all the people and all the women, "Hear the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who are in the land of Egypt.
Jeremiah	44:25	Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You and your wives have declared with your mouths, and have fulfilled it with your hands, saying, 'We will surely perform our vows that we have made, to make offerings to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her.' Then confirm your vows and perform your vows!
Jeremiah	44:26	Therefore hear the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by my great name, says the LORD, that my name shall no more be invoked by the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, 'As the Lord GOD lives.'
Jeremiah	44:27	Behold, I am watching over them for disaster and not for good. All the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by famine, until there is an end of them.
Jeremiah	44:28	And those who escape the sword shall return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah, few in number; and all the remnant of Judah, who came to the land of Egypt to live, shall know whose word will stand, mine or theirs.
Jeremiah	44:29	This shall be the sign to you, declares the LORD, that I will punish you in this place, in order that you may know that my words will surely stand against you for harm:
Jeremiah	44:30	Thus says the LORD, behold, I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies and into the hand of those who seek his life, as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy and sought his life."
Jeremiah	45:1	The word that Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah, when he wrote these words in a book at the dictation of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah	45:2	"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to you, O Baruch:
Jeremiah	45:3	You said, 'Woe is me! For the LORD has added sorrow to my pain. I am weary with my groaning, and I find no rest.'
Jeremiah	45:4	Thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD: Behold, what I have built I am breaking down, and what I have planted I am plucking up--that is, the whole land.
Jeremiah	45:5	And do you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not, for behold, I am bringing disaster upon all flesh, declares the LORD. But I will give you your life as a prize of war in all places to which you may go."
Jeremiah	46:1	The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.
Jeremiah	46:2	About Egypt. Concerning the army of Pharaoh Neco, king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates at Carchemish and which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah	46:3	"Prepare buckler and shield, and advance for battle!
Jeremiah	46:4	Harness the horses; mount, O horsemen! Take your stations with your helmets, polish your spears, put on your armor!
Jeremiah	46:5	Why have I seen it? They are dismayed and have turned backward. Their warriors are beaten down and have fled in haste; they look not back--terror on every side! declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	46:6	The swift cannot flee away, nor the warrior escape; in the north by the river Euphrates they have stumbled and fallen.
Jeremiah	46:7	"Who is this, rising like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge?
Jeremiah	46:8	Egypt rises like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge. He said, 'I will rise, I will cover the earth, I will destroy cities and their inhabitants.'
Jeremiah	46:9	Advance, O horses, and rage, O chariots! Let the warriors go out: men of Cush and Put who handle the shield, men of Lud, skilled in handling the bow.
Jeremiah	46:10	That day is the day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The sword shall devour and be sated and drink its fill of their blood. For the Lord GOD of hosts holds a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates.
Jeremiah	46:11	Go up to Gilead, and take balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt! In vain you have used many medicines; there is no healing for you.
Jeremiah	46:12	The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for warrior has stumbled against warrior; they have both fallen together."
Jeremiah	46:13	The word that the LORD spoke to Jeremiah the prophet about the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to strike the land of Egypt:
Jeremiah	46:14	"Declare in Egypt, and proclaim in Migdol; proclaim in Memphis and Tahpanhes; Say, 'Stand ready and be prepared, for the sword shall devour around you.'
Jeremiah	46:15	Why are your mighty ones face down? They do not stand because the LORD thrust them down.
Jeremiah	46:16	He made many stumble, and they fell, and they said one to another, 'Arise, and let us go back to our own people and to the land of our birth, because of the sword of the oppressor.'
Jeremiah	46:17	Call the name of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, 'Noisy one who lets the hour go by.'
Jeremiah	46:18	"As I live, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts, like Tabor among the mountains and like Carmel by the sea, shall one come.
Jeremiah	46:19	Prepare yourselves baggage for exile, O inhabitants of Egypt! For Memphis shall become a waste, a ruin, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah	46:20	"A beautiful heifer is Egypt, but a biting fly from the north has come upon her.
Jeremiah	46:21	Even her hired soldiers in her midst are like fattened calves; yes, they have turned and fled together; they did not stand, for the day of their calamity has come upon them, the time of their punishment.
Jeremiah	46:22	"She makes a sound like a serpent gliding away; for her enemies march in force and come against her with axes like those who fell trees.
Jeremiah	46:23	They shall cut down her forest, declares the LORD, though it is impenetrable, because they are more numerous than locusts; they are without number.
Jeremiah	46:24	The daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame; she shall be delivered into the hand of a people from the north."
Jeremiah	46:25	The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, said: "Behold, I am bringing punishment upon Amon of Thebes, and Pharaoh and Egypt and her gods and her kings, upon Pharaoh and those who trust in him.
Jeremiah	46:26	I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their life, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and his officers. Afterward Egypt shall be inhabited as in the days of old, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	46:27	"But fear not, O Jacob my servant, nor be dismayed, O Israel, for behold, I will save you from far away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none shall make him afraid.
Jeremiah	46:28	Fear not, O Jacob my servant, declares the LORD, for I am with you. I will make a full end of all the nations to which I have driven you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished."
Jeremiah	47:1	The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines, before Pharaoh struck down Gaza.
Jeremiah	47:2	"Thus says the LORD: Behold, waters are rising out of the north, and shall become an overflowing torrent; they shall overflow the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it. Men shall cry out, and every inhabitant of the land shall wail.
Jeremiah	47:3	At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his stallions, at the rushing of his chariots, at the rumbling of their wheels, the fathers look not back to their children, so feeble are their hands,
Jeremiah	47:4	because of the day that is coming to destroy all the Philistines, to cut off from Tyre and Sidon every helper that remains. For the LORD is destroying the Philistines, the remnant of the coastland of Caphtor.
Jeremiah	47:5	Baldness has come upon Gaza; Ashkelon has perished. O remnant of their valley, how long will you gash yourselves?
Jeremiah	47:6	Ah, sword of the LORD! How long till you are quiet? Put yourself into your scabbard; rest and be still!
Jeremiah	47:7	How can it be quiet when the LORD has given it a charge? Against Ashkelon and against the seashore he has appointed it."
Jeremiah	48:1	Concerning Moab.Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Woe to Nebo, for it is laid waste! Kiriathaim is put to shame, it is taken; the fortress is put to shame and broken down;
Jeremiah	48:2	the renown of Moab is no more. In Heshbon they planned disaster against her: 'Come, let us cut her off from being a nation!' You also, O Madmen, shall be brought to silence; the sword shall pursue you.
Jeremiah	48:3	"Hark! A cry from Horonaim, 'Desolation and great destruction!'
Jeremiah	48:4	Moab is destroyed; her little ones have made a cry.
Jeremiah	48:5	For at the ascent of Luhith they go up weeping; for at the descent of Horonaim they have heard the distressed cry of destruction.
Jeremiah	48:6	Flee! Save yourselves! You will be like a juniper in the desert!
Jeremiah	48:7	For, because you trusted in your works and your treasures, you also shall be taken; and Chemosh shall go into exile with his priests and his officials.
Jeremiah	48:8	The destroyer shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape; the valley shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed, as the LORD has spoken.
Jeremiah	48:9	"Give wings to Moab, for she would fly away; her cities shall become a desolation, with no inhabitant in them.
Jeremiah	48:10	"Cursed is he who does the work of the LORD with slackness, and cursed is he who keeps back his sword from bloodshed.
Jeremiah	48:11	"Moab has been at ease from his youth and has settled on his dregs; he has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile; so his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed.
Jeremiah	48:12	"Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I shall send to him pourers who will pour him, and empty his vessels and break his jars in pieces.
Jeremiah	48:13	Then Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their confidence.
Jeremiah	48:14	"How do you say, 'We are heroes and mighty men of war'?
Jeremiah	48:15	The destroyer of Moab and his cities has come up, and the choicest of his young men have gone down to slaughter, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah	48:16	The calamity of Moab is near at hand, and his affliction hastens swiftly.
Jeremiah	48:17	Grieve for him, all you who are around him, and all who know his name; say, 'How the mighty scepter is broken, the glorious staff.'
Jeremiah	48:18	"Come down from your glory, and sit on the parched ground, O inhabitant of Dibon! For the destroyer of Moab has come up against you; he has destroyed your strongholds.
Jeremiah	48:19	Stand by the way and watch, O inhabitant of Aroer! Ask him who flees and her who escapes; say, 'What has happened?'
Jeremiah	48:20	Moab is put to shame, for it is broken; wail and cry! Tell it beside the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste.
Jeremiah	48:21	"Judgment has come upon the tableland, upon Holon, and Jahzah, and Mephaath,
Jeremiah	48:22	and Dibon, and Nebo, and Beth-diblathaim,
Jeremiah	48:23	and Kiriathaim, and Beth-gamul, and Beth-meon,
Jeremiah	48:24	and Kerioth, and Bozrah, and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near.
Jeremiah	48:25	The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	48:26	"Make him drunk, because he magnified himself against the LORD, so that Moab shall wallow in his vomit, and he too shall be held in derision.
Jeremiah	48:27	Was not Israel a derision to you? Was he found among thieves, that whenever you spoke of him you wagged your head?
Jeremiah	48:28	"Leave the cities, and dwell in the rock, O inhabitants of Moab! Be like the dove that nests in the sides of the mouth of a gorge.
Jeremiah	48:29	We have heard of the pride of Moab--he is very proud--of his loftiness, his pride, and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.
Jeremiah	48:30	I know his insolence, declares the LORD; his boasts are false, his deeds are false.
Jeremiah	48:31	Therefore I wail for Moab; I cry out for all Moab; for the men of Kir-hareseth I mourn.
Jeremiah	48:32	More than for Jazer I weep for you, O vine of Sibmah! Your branches passed over the sea, reached to the Sea of Jazer; on your summer fruits and your grapes the destroyer has fallen.
Jeremiah	48:33	Gladness and joy have been taken away from the fruitful land of Moab; I have made the wine cease from the winepresses; no one treads them with shouts of joy; the shouting is not the shout of joy.
Jeremiah	48:34	"From the outcry at Heshbon even to Elealeh, as far as Jahaz they utter their voice, from Zoar to Horonaim and Eglath-shelishiyah. For the waters of Nimrim also have become desolate.
Jeremiah	48:35	And I will bring to an end in Moab, declares the LORD, him who offers sacrifice in the high place and makes offerings to his god.
Jeremiah	48:36	Therefore my heart moans for Moab like a flute, and my heart moans like a flute for the men of Kir-hareseth. Therefore the riches they gained have perished.
Jeremiah	48:37	"For every head is shaved and every beard cut off. On all the hands are gashes, and around the waist is sackcloth.
Jeremiah	48:38	On all the housetops of Moab and in the squares there is nothing but lamentation, for I have broken Moab like a vessel for which no one cares, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	48:39	How it is broken! How they wail! How Moab has turned his back in shame! So Moab has become a derision and a horror to all that are around him."
Jeremiah	48:40	For thus says the LORD: "Behold, one shall fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against Moab;
Jeremiah	48:41	the cities shall be taken and the strongholds seized. The heart of the warriors of Moab shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her birth pains;
Jeremiah	48:42	Moab shall be destroyed and be no longer a people, because he magnified himself against the LORD.
Jeremiah	48:43	Terror, pit, and snare are before you, O inhabitant of Moab! declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	48:44	He who flees from the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For I will bring these things upon Moab, the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	48:45	"In the shadow of Heshbon fugitives stop without strength, for fire came out from Heshbon, flame from the house of Sihon; it has destroyed the forehead of Moab, the crown of the sons of tumult.
Jeremiah	48:46	Woe to you, O Moab! The people of Chemosh are undone, for your sons have been taken captive, and your daughters into captivity.
Jeremiah	48:47	Yet I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, declares the LORD." Thus far is the judgment on Moab.
Jeremiah	49:1	Concerning the Ammonites.Thus says the LORD: "Has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then has Milcom dispossessed Gad, and his people settled in its cities?
Jeremiah	49:2	Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will cause the battle cry to be heard against Rabbah of the Ammonites; it shall become a desolate mound, and its villages shall be burned with fire; then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the LORD.
Jeremiah	49:3	"Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste! Cry out, O daughters of Rabbah! put on sackcloth, lament, and run to and fro among the hedges! For Milcom shall go into exile, with his priests and his officials.
Jeremiah	49:4	Why do you boast of your valleys, O faithless daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, 'Who will come against me?'
Jeremiah	49:5	Behold, I will bring terror upon you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, from all who are around you, and you shall be driven out, every man straight before him, with none to gather the fugitives.
Jeremiah	49:6	"But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	49:7	Concerning Edom.Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
Jeremiah	49:8	Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan! For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time when I punish him.
Jeremiah	49:9	If grape-gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only enough for themselves?
Jeremiah	49:10	But I have stripped Esau bare; I have uncovered his hiding places, and he is not able to conceal himself. His children are destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors; and he is no more.
Jeremiah	49:11	Leave your fatherless children; I will keep them alive; and let your widows trust in me."
Jeremiah	49:12	For thus says the LORD: "If those who did not deserve to drink the cup must drink it, will you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you must drink.
Jeremiah	49:13	For I have sworn by myself, declares the LORD, that Bozrah shall become a horror, a taunt, a waste, and a curse, and all her cities shall be perpetual wastes."
Jeremiah	49:14	I have heard a message from the LORD, and an envoy has been sent among the nations: "Gather yourselves together and come against her, and rise up for battle!
Jeremiah	49:15	For behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among mankind.
Jeremiah	49:16	The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down from there, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	49:17	"Edom shall become a horror. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its disasters.
Jeremiah	49:18	As when Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities were overthrown, says the LORD, no man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her.
Jeremiah	49:19	Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will suddenly make him run away from her. And I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
Jeremiah	49:20	Therefore hear the plan that the LORD has made against Edom and the purposes that he has formed against the inhabitants of Teman: Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away. Surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
Jeremiah	49:21	At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; the sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea.
Jeremiah	49:22	Behold, one shall mount up and fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against Bozrah, and the heart of the warriors of Edom shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her birth pains."
Jeremiah	49:23	Concerning Damascus: "Hamath and Arpad are confounded, for they have heard bad news; they melt in fear, they are troubled like the sea that cannot be quiet.
Jeremiah	49:24	Damascus has become feeble, she turned to flee, and panic seized her; anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah	49:25	How is the famous city not forsaken, the city of my joy?
Jeremiah	49:26	Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day, declares the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah	49:27	And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-hadad."
Jeremiah	49:28	Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck down. Thus says the LORD: "Rise up, advance against Kedar! Destroy the people of the east!
Jeremiah	49:29	Their tents and their flocks shall be taken, their curtains and all their goods; their camels shall be led away from them, and men shall cry to them: 'Terror on every side!'
Jeremiah	49:30	Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor! declares the LORD. For Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has made a plan against you and formed a purpose against you.
Jeremiah	49:31	"Rise up, advance against a nation at ease, that dwells securely, declares the LORD, that has no gates or bars, that dwells alone.
Jeremiah	49:32	Their camels shall become plunder, their herds of livestock a spoil. I will scatter to every wind those who cut the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	49:33	Hazor shall become a haunt of jackals, an everlasting waste; no man shall dwell there; no man shall sojourn in her."
Jeremiah	49:34	The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jeremiah	49:35	Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the mainstay of their might.
Jeremiah	49:36	And I will bring upon Elam the four winds from the four quarters of heaven. And I will scatter them to all those winds, and there shall be no nation to which those driven out of Elam shall not come.
Jeremiah	49:37	I will terrify Elam before their enemies and before those who seek their life. I will bring disaster upon them, my fierce anger, declares the LORD. I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them,
Jeremiah	49:38	and I will set my throne in Elam and destroy their king and officials, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	49:39	"But in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the LORD."
Jeremiah	50:1	The word that the LORD spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the prophet:
Jeremiah	50:2	"Declare among the nations and proclaim, set up a banner and proclaim, conceal it not, and say: 'Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Merodach is dismayed. Her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed.'
Jeremiah	50:3	"For out of the north a nation has come up against her, which shall make her land a desolation, and none shall dwell in it; both man and beast shall flee away.
Jeremiah	50:4	"In those days and in that time, declares the LORD, the people of Israel and the people of Judah shall come together, weeping as they come, and they shall seek the LORD their God.
Jeremiah	50:5	They shall ask the way to Zion, with faces turned toward it, saying, 'Come, let us join ourselves to the LORD in an everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten.'
Jeremiah	50:6	"My people have been lost sheep. Their shepherds have led them astray, turning them away on the mountains. From mountain to hill they have gone. They have forgotten their fold.
Jeremiah	50:7	All who found them have devoured them, and their enemies have said, 'We are not guilty, for they have sinned against the LORD, their habitation of righteousness, the LORD, the hope of their fathers.'
Jeremiah	50:8	"Flee from the midst of Babylon, and go out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as male goats before the flock.
Jeremiah	50:9	For behold, I am stirring up and bringing against Babylon a gathering of great nations, from the north country. And they shall array themselves against her. From there she shall be taken. Their arrows are like a skilled warrior who does not return empty-handed.
Jeremiah	50:10	Chaldea shall be plundered; all who plunder her shall be sated, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	50:11	"Though you rejoice, though you exult, O plunderers of my heritage, though you frolic like a heifer in the pasture, and neigh like stallions,
Jeremiah	50:12	your mother shall be utterly shamed, and she who bore you shall be disgraced. Behold, she shall be the last of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
Jeremiah	50:13	Because of the wrath of the LORD she shall not be inhabited but shall be an utter desolation; everyone who passes by Babylon shall be appalled, and hiss because of all her wounds.
Jeremiah	50:14	Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around, all you who bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows, for she has sinned against the LORD.
Jeremiah	50:15	Raise a shout against her all around; she has surrendered; her bulwarks have fallen; her walls are thrown down. For this is the vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance on her; do to her as she has done.
Jeremiah	50:16	Cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest; because of the sword of the oppressor, every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land.
Jeremiah	50:17	"Israel is a hunted sheep driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him, and now at last Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has gnawed his bones.
Jeremiah	50:18	Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing punishment on the king of Babylon and his land, as I punished the king of Assyria.
Jeremiah	50:19	I will restore Israel to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and in Bashan, and his desire shall be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
Jeremiah	50:20	In those days and in that time, declares the LORD, iniquity shall be sought in Israel, and there shall be none. And sin in Judah, and none shall be found, for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant.
Jeremiah	50:21	"Go up against the land of Merathaim, and against the inhabitants of Pekod. Kill, and devote them to destruction, declares the LORD, and do all that I have commanded you.
Jeremiah	50:22	The noise of battle is in the land, and great destruction!
Jeremiah	50:23	How the hammer of the whole earth is cut down and broken! How Babylon has become a horror among the nations!
Jeremiah	50:24	I set a snare for you and you were taken, O Babylon, and you did not know it; you were found and caught, because you opposed the LORD.
Jeremiah	50:25	The LORD has opened his armory and brought out the weapons of his wrath, for the Lord GOD of hosts has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah	50:26	Come against her from every quarter; open her granaries; pile her up like heaps of grain, and devote her to destruction; let nothing be left of her.
Jeremiah	50:27	Kill all her bulls; let them go down to the slaughter. Woe to them, for their day has come, the time of their punishment.
Jeremiah	50:28	"A voice! They flee and escape from the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, vengeance for his temple.
Jeremiah	50:29	"Summon archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow. Encamp around her; let no one escape. Repay her according to her deeds; do to her according to all that she has done. For she has proudly defied the LORD, the Holy One of Israel.
Jeremiah	50:30	Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	50:31	"Behold, I am against you, O proud one, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, for your day has come, the time when I will punish you.
Jeremiah	50:32	The proud one shall stumble and fall, with none to raise him up, and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it will devour all that is around him.
Jeremiah	50:33	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: The people of Israel are oppressed, and the people of Judah with them. All who took them captive have held them fast; they refuse to let them go.
Jeremiah	50:34	Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name. He will surely plead their cause, that he may give rest to the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jeremiah	50:35	"A sword against the Chaldeans, declares the LORD, and against the inhabitants of Babylon, and against her officials and her wise men!
Jeremiah	50:36	A sword against the diviners, that they may become fools! A sword against her warriors, that they may be destroyed!
Jeremiah	50:37	A sword against her horses and against her chariots, and against all the foreign troops in her midst, that they may become women! A sword against all her treasures, that they may be plundered!
Jeremiah	50:38	A drought against her waters, that they may be dried up! For it is a land of images, and they are mad over idols.
Jeremiah	50:39	"Therefore wild beasts shall dwell with hyenas in Babylon, and ostriches shall dwell in her. She shall never again have people, nor be inhabited for all generations.
Jeremiah	50:40	As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities, declares the LORD, so no man shall dwell there, and no son of man shall sojourn in her.
Jeremiah	50:41	"Behold, a people comes from the north; a mighty nation and many kings are stirring from the farthest parts of the earth.
Jeremiah	50:42	They lay hold of bow and spear; they are cruel and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the roaring of the sea; they ride on horses, arrayed as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Babylon!
Jeremiah	50:43	"The king of Babylon heard the report of them, and his hands fell helpless; anguish seized him, pain as of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah	50:44	"Behold, like a lion coming up from the thicket of the Jordan against a perennial pasture, I will suddenly make them run away from her, and I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
Jeremiah	50:45	Therefore hear the plan that the LORD has made against Babylon, and the purposes that he has formed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely the little ones of their flock shall be dragged away; surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
Jeremiah	50:46	At the sound of the capture of Babylon the earth shall tremble, and her cry shall be heard among the nations."
Jeremiah	51:1	Thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon, against the inhabitants of Leb-kamai,
Jeremiah	51:2	and I will send to Babylon winnowers, and they shall winnow her, and they shall empty her land, when they come against her from every side on the day of trouble.
Jeremiah	51:3	Let not the archer bend his bow, and let him not stand up in his armor. Spare not her young men; devote to destruction all her army.
Jeremiah	51:4	They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and wounded in her streets.
Jeremiah	51:5	For Israel and Judah have not been forsaken by their God, the LORD of hosts, but the land of the Chaldeans is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel.
Jeremiah	51:6	"Flee from the midst of Babylon; let every one save his life! Be not cut off in her punishment, for this is the time of the LORD's vengeance, the repayment he is rendering her.
Jeremiah	51:7	Babylon was a golden cup in the LORD's hand, making all the earth drunken; the nations drank of her wine; therefore the nations went mad.
Jeremiah	51:8	Suddenly Babylon has fallen and been broken; wail for her! Take balm for her pain; perhaps she may be healed.
Jeremiah	51:9	We would have healed Babylon, but she was not healed. Forsake her, and let us go each to his own country, for her judgment has reached up to heaven and has been lifted up even to the skies.
Jeremiah	51:10	The LORD has brought about our vindication; come, let us declare in Zion the work of the LORD our God.
Jeremiah	51:11	"Sharpen the arrows! Take up the shields!The LORD has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes, because his purpose concerning Babylon is to destroy it, for that is the vengeance of the LORD, the vengeance for his temple.
Jeremiah	51:12	"Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon; make the watch strong; set up watchmen; prepare the ambushes; for the LORD has both planned and done what he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jeremiah	51:13	O you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come; the thread of your life is cut.
Jeremiah	51:14	The LORD of hosts has sworn by himself: Surely I will fill you with men, as many as locusts, and they shall raise the shout of victory over you.
Jeremiah	51:15	"It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jeremiah	51:16	When he utters his voice there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Jeremiah	51:17	Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his images are false, and there is no breath in them.
Jeremiah	51:18	They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jeremiah	51:19	Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Jeremiah	51:20	"You are my hammer and weapon of war: with you I break nations in pieces; with you I destroy kingdoms;
Jeremiah	51:21	with you I break in pieces the horse and his rider; with you I break in pieces the chariot and the charioteer;
Jeremiah	51:22	with you I break in pieces man and woman; with you I break in pieces the old man and the youth; with you I break in pieces the young man and the young woman;
Jeremiah	51:23	with you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; with you I break in pieces the farmer and his team; with you I break in pieces governors and commanders.
Jeremiah	51:24	"I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea before your very eyes for all the evil that they have done in Zion, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	51:25	"Behold, I am against you, O destroying mountain, declares the LORD, which destroys the whole earth; I will stretch out my hand against you, and roll you down from the crags, and make you a burnt mountain.
Jeremiah	51:26	No stone shall be taken from you for a corner and no stone for a foundation, but you shall be a perpetual waste, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	51:27	"Set up a standard on the earth; blow the trumpet among the nations; prepare the nations for war against her; summon against her the kingdoms, Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz; appoint a marshal against her; bring up horses like bristling locusts.
Jeremiah	51:28	Prepare the nations for war against her, the kings of the Medes, with their governors and deputies, and every land under their dominion.
Jeremiah	51:29	The land trembles and writhes in pain, for the LORD's purposes against Babylon stand, to make the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah	51:30	The warriors of Babylon have ceased fighting; they remain in their strongholds; their strength has failed; they have become women; her dwellings are on fire; her bars are broken.
Jeremiah	51:31	One runner runs to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to tell the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every side;
Jeremiah	51:32	the fords have been seized, the marshes are burned with fire, and the soldiers are in panic.
Jeremiah	51:33	For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while and the time of her harvest will come."
Jeremiah	51:34	"Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has devoured me; he has crushed me; he has made me an empty vessel; he has swallowed me like a monster; he has filled his stomach with my delicacies; he has rinsed me out.
Jeremiah	51:35	The violence done to me and to my kinsmen be upon Babylon," let the inhabitant of Zion say. "My blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea," let Jerusalem say.
Jeremiah	51:36	Therefore thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will plead your cause and take vengeance for you. I will dry up her sea and make her fountain dry,
Jeremiah	51:37	and Babylon shall become a heap of ruins, the haunt of jackals, a horror and a hissing, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah	51:38	"They shall roar together like lions; they shall growl like lions' cubs.
Jeremiah	51:39	While they are inflamed I will prepare them a feast and make them drunk, that they may become merry, then sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	51:40	I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and male goats.
Jeremiah	51:41	"How Babylon is taken, the praise of the whole earth seized! How Babylon has become a horror among the nations!
Jeremiah	51:42	The sea has come up on Babylon; she is covered with its tumultuous waves.
Jeremiah	51:43	Her cities have become a horror, a land of drought and a desert, a land in which no one dwells, and through which no son of man passes.
Jeremiah	51:44	And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and take out of his mouth what he has swallowed. The nations shall no longer flow to him; the wall of Babylon has fallen.
Jeremiah	51:45	"Go out of the midst of her, my people! Let every one save his life from the fierce anger of the LORD!
Jeremiah	51:46	Let not your heart faint, and be not fearful at the report heard in the land, when a report comes in one year and afterward a report in another year, and violence is in the land, and ruler is against ruler.
Jeremiah	51:47	"Therefore, behold, the days are coming when I will punish the images of Babylon; her whole land shall be put to shame, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
Jeremiah	51:48	Then the heavens and the earth, and all that is in them, shall sing for joy over Babylon, for the destroyers shall come against them out of the north, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	51:49	Babylon must fall for the slain of Israel, just as for Babylon have fallen the slain of all the earth.
Jeremiah	51:50	"You who have escaped from the sword, go, do not stand still! Remember the LORD from far away, and let Jerusalem come into your mind:
Jeremiah	51:51	'We are put to shame, for we have heard reproach; dishonor has covered our face, for foreigners have come into the holy places of the LORD's house.'
Jeremiah	51:52	"Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will execute judgment upon her images, and through all her land the wounded shall groan.
Jeremiah	51:53	Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify her strong height, yet destroyers would come from me against her, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah	51:54	"A voice! A cry from Babylon! The noise of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
Jeremiah	51:55	For the LORD is laying Babylon waste and stilling her mighty voice. Their waves roar like many waters; the noise of their voice is raised,
Jeremiah	51:56	for a destroyer has come upon her, upon Babylon; her warriors are taken; their bows are broken in pieces, for the LORD is a God of recompense; he will surely repay.
Jeremiah	51:57	I will make drunk her officials and her wise men, her governors, her commanders, and her warriors; they shall sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah	51:58	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: The broad wall of Babylon shall be leveled to the ground, and her high gates shall be burned with fire. The peoples labor for nothing, and the nations weary themselves only for fire."
Jeremiah	51:59	The word that Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah king of Judah to Babylon, in the fourth year of his reign. Seraiah was the quartermaster.
Jeremiah	51:60	Jeremiah wrote in a book all the disaster that should come upon Babylon, all these words that are written concerning Babylon.
Jeremiah	51:61	And Jeremiah said to Seraiah: "When you come to Babylon, see that you read all these words,
Jeremiah	51:62	and say, 'O LORD, you have said concerning this place that you will cut it off, so that nothing shall dwell in it, neither man nor beast, and it shall be desolate forever.'
Jeremiah	51:63	When you finish reading this book, tie a stone to it and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates,
Jeremiah	51:64	and say, 'Thus shall Babylon sink, to rise no more, because of the disaster that I am bringing upon her, and they shall become exhausted.'"Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.
Jeremiah	52:1	Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
Jeremiah	52:2	And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
Jeremiah	52:3	For because of the anger of the LORD things came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out from his presence.And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah	52:4	And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem, and laid siege to it. And they built siegeworks all around it.
Jeremiah	52:5	So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
Jeremiah	52:6	On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land.
Jeremiah	52:7	Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by the way of a gate between the two walls, by the king's garden, while the Chaldeans were around the city. And they went in the direction of the Arabah.
Jeremiah	52:8	But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And all his army was scattered from him.
Jeremiah	52:9	Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence on him.
Jeremiah	52:10	The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and also slaughtered all the officials of Judah at Riblah.
Jeremiah	52:11	He put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in chains, and the king of Babylon took him to Babylon, and put him in prison till the day of his death.
Jeremiah	52:12	In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month--that was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon--Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard, who served the king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	52:13	And he burned the house of the LORD, and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down.
Jeremiah	52:14	And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls around Jerusalem.
Jeremiah	52:15	And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the artisans.
Jeremiah	52:16	But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
Jeremiah	52:17	And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the LORD, and the stands and the bronze sea that were in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces, and carried all the bronze to Babylon.
Jeremiah	52:18	And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the basins and the dishes for incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service;
Jeremiah	52:19	also the small bowls and the fire pans and the basins and the pots and the lampstands and the dishes for incense and the bowls for drink offerings. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver, as silver.
Jeremiah	52:20	As for the two pillars, the one sea, the twelve bronze bulls that were under the sea, and the stands, which Solomon the king had made for the house of the LORD, the bronze of all these things was beyond weight.
Jeremiah	52:21	As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits, and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.
Jeremiah	52:22	On it was a capital of bronze. The height of the one capital was five cubits. A network and pomegranates, all of bronze, were around the capital. And the second pillar had the same, with pomegranates.
Jeremiah	52:23	There were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were a hundred upon the network all around.
Jeremiah	52:24	And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold;
Jeremiah	52:25	and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of the king's council, who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
Jeremiah	52:26	And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
Jeremiah	52:27	And the king of Babylon struck them down, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was taken into exile out of its land.
Jeremiah	52:28	This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year, 3,023 Judeans;
Jeremiah	52:29	in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem 832 persons;
Jeremiah	52:30	in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Judeans 745 persons; all the persons were 4,600.
Jeremiah	52:31	And in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fifth day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah and brought him out of prison.
Jeremiah	52:32	And he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
Jeremiah	52:33	So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table,
Jeremiah	52:34	and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king according to his daily need, until the day of his death as long as he lived.
Lamentations	1:1	How lonely sits the city that was full of people! How like a widow has she become, she who was great among the nations! She who was a princess among the provinces has become a slave.
Lamentations	1:2	She weeps bitterly in the night, with tears on her cheeks; among all her lovers she has none to comfort her; all her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they have become her enemies.
Lamentations	1:3	Judah has gone into exile because of affliction and hard servitude; she dwells now among the nations, but finds no resting place; her pursuers have all overtaken her in the midst of her distress.
Lamentations	1:4	The roads to Zion mourn, for none come to the festival; all her gates are desolate; her priests groan; her virgins have been afflicted, and she herself suffers bitterly.
Lamentations	1:5	Her foes have become the head; her enemies prosper, because the LORD has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions; her children have gone away, captives before the foe.
Lamentations	1:6	From the daughter of Zion all her majesty has departed. Her princes have become like deer that find no pasture; they fled without strength before the pursuer.
Lamentations	1:7	Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and wandering all the precious things that were hers from days of old. When her people fell into the hand of the foe, and there was none to help her, her foes gloated over her; they mocked at her downfall.
Lamentations	1:8	Jerusalem sinned grievously; therefore she became filthy; all who honored her despise her, for they have seen her nakedness; she herself groans and turns her face away.
Lamentations	1:9	Her uncleanness was in her skirts; she took no thought of her future; therefore her fall is terrible; she has no comforter. "O LORD, behold my affliction, for the enemy has triumphed!"
Lamentations	1:10	The enemy has stretched out his hands over all her precious things; for she has seen the nations enter her sanctuary, those whom you forbade to enter your congregation.
Lamentations	1:11	All her people groan as they search for bread; they trade their treasures for food to revive their strength. "Look, O LORD, and see, for I am despised."
Lamentations	1:12	"Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which was brought upon me, which the LORD inflicted on the day of his fierce anger.
Lamentations	1:13	"From on high he sent fire; into my bones he made it descend; he spread a net for my feet; he turned me back; he has left me stunned, faint all the day long.
Lamentations	1:14	"My transgressions were bound into a yoke; by his hand they were fastened together; they were set upon my neck; he caused my strength to fail; the Lord gave me into the hands of those whom I cannot withstand.
Lamentations	1:15	"The Lord rejected all my mighty men in my midst; he summoned an assembly against me to crush my young men; the Lord has trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah.
Lamentations	1:16	"For these things I weep; my eyes flow with tears; for a comforter is far from me, one to revive my spirit; my children are desolate, for the enemy has prevailed."
Lamentations	1:17	Zion stretches out her hands, but there is none to comfort her; the LORD has commanded against Jacob that his neighbors should be his foes; Jerusalem has become a filthy thing among them.
Lamentations	1:18	"The LORD is in the right, for I have rebelled against his word; but hear, all you peoples, and see my suffering; my young women and my young men have gone into captivity.
Lamentations	1:19	"I called to my lovers, but they deceived me; my priests and elders perished in the city, while they sought food to revive their strength.
Lamentations	1:20	"Look, O LORD, for I am in distress; my stomach churns; my heart is wrung within me, because I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves; in the house it is like death.
Lamentations	1:21	"They heard my groaning, yet there is no one to comfort me. All my enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that you have done it. You have brought the day you announced; now let them be as I am.
Lamentations	1:22	"Let all their evildoing come before you, and deal with them as you have dealt with me because of all my transgressions; for my groans are many, and my heart is faint."
Lamentations	2:1	How the Lord in his anger has set the daughter of Zion under a cloud! He has cast down from heaven to earth the splendor of Israel; he has not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.
Lamentations	2:2	The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the habitations of Jacob; in his wrath he has broken down the strongholds of the daughter of Judah; he has brought down to the ground in dishonor the kingdom and its rulers.
Lamentations	2:3	He has cut down in fierce anger all the might of Israel; he has withdrawn from them his right hand in the face of the enemy; he has burned like a flaming fire in Jacob, consuming all around.
Lamentations	2:4	He has bent his bow like an enemy, with his right hand set like a foe; and he has killed all who were delightful in our eyes in the tent of the daughter of Zion; he has poured out his fury like fire.
Lamentations	2:5	The Lord has become like an enemy; he has swallowed up Israel; he has swallowed up all its palaces; he has laid in ruins its strongholds, and he has multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.
Lamentations	2:6	He has laid waste his booth like a garden, laid in ruins his meeting place; the LORD has made Zion forget festival and Sabbath, and in his fierce indignation has spurned king and priest.
Lamentations	2:7	The Lord has scorned his altar, disowned his sanctuary; he has delivered into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces; they raised a clamor in the house of the LORD as on the day of festival.
Lamentations	2:8	The LORD determined to lay in ruins the wall of the daughter of Zion; he stretched out the measuring line; he did not restrain his hand from destroying; he caused rampart and wall to lament; they languished together.
Lamentations	2:9	Her gates have sunk into the ground; he has ruined and broken her bars; her king and princes are among the nations; the law is no more, and her prophets find no vision from the LORD.
Lamentations	2:10	The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground in silence; they have thrown dust on their heads and put on sackcloth; the young women of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground.
Lamentations	2:11	My eyes are spent with weeping; my stomach churns; my bile is poured out to the ground because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, because infants and babies faint in the streets of the city.
Lamentations	2:12	They cry to their mothers, "Where is bread and wine?" as they faint like a wounded man in the streets of the city, as their life is poured out on their mothers' bosom.
Lamentations	2:13	What can I say for you, to what compare you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What can I liken to you, that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is vast as the sea; who can heal you?
Lamentations	2:14	Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions; they have not exposed your iniquity to restore your fortunes, but have seen for you oracles that are false and misleading.
Lamentations	2:15	All who pass along the way clap their hands at you; they hiss and wag their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem; "Is this the city that was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth?"
Lamentations	2:16	All your enemies rail against you; they hiss, they gnash their teeth, they cry: "We have swallowed her! Ah, this is the day we longed for; now we have it; we see it!"
Lamentations	2:17	The LORD has done what he purposed; he has carried out his word, which he commanded long ago; he has thrown down without pity; he has made the enemy rejoice over you and exalted the might of your foes.
Lamentations	2:18	Their heart cried to the Lord. O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears stream down like a torrent day and night! Give yourself no rest, your eyes no respite!
Lamentations	2:19	"Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the night watches! Pour out your heart like water before the presence of the Lord! Lift your hands to him for the lives of your children, who faint for hunger at the head of every street."
Lamentations	2:20	Look, O LORD, and see! With whom have you dealt thus? Should women eat the fruit of their womb, the children of their tender care? Should priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord?
Lamentations	2:21	In the dust of the streets lie the young and the old; my young women and my young men have fallen by the sword; you have killed them in the day of your anger, slaughtering without pity.
Lamentations	2:22	You summoned as if to a festival day my terrors on every side, and on the day of the anger of the LORD no one escaped or survived; those whom I held and raised my enemy destroyed.
Lamentations	3:1	I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath;
Lamentations	3:2	he has driven and brought me into darkness without any light;
Lamentations	3:3	surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long.
Lamentations	3:4	He has made my flesh and my skin waste away; he has broken my bones;
Lamentations	3:5	he has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation;
Lamentations	3:6	he has made me dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago.
Lamentations	3:7	He has walled me about so that I cannot escape; he has made my chains heavy;
Lamentations	3:8	though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer;
Lamentations	3:9	he has blocked my ways with blocks of stones; he has made my paths crooked.
Lamentations	3:10	He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding;
Lamentations	3:11	he turned aside my steps and tore me to pieces; he has made me desolate;
Lamentations	3:12	he bent his bow and set me as a target for his arrow.
Lamentations	3:13	He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver;
Lamentations	3:14	I have become the laughingstock of all peoples, the object of their taunts all day long.
Lamentations	3:15	He has filled me with bitterness; he has sated me with wormwood.
Lamentations	3:16	He has made my teeth grind on gravel, and made me cower in ashes;
Lamentations	3:17	my soul is bereft of peace; I have forgotten what happiness is;
Lamentations	3:18	so I say, "My endurance has perished; so has my hope from the LORD."
Lamentations	3:19	Remember my affliction and my wanderings, the wormwood and the gall!
Lamentations	3:20	My soul continually remembers it and is bowed down within me.
Lamentations	3:21	But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope:
Lamentations	3:22	The steadfast love of the LORD never ceases; his mercies never come to an end;
Lamentations	3:23	they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness.
Lamentations	3:24	"The LORD is my portion," says my soul, "therefore I will hope in him."
Lamentations	3:25	The LORD is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.
Lamentations	3:26	It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD.
Lamentations	3:27	It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
Lamentations	3:28	Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him;
Lamentations	3:29	let him put his mouth in the dust--there may yet be hope;
Lamentations	3:30	let him give his cheek to the one who strikes, and let him be filled with insults.
Lamentations	3:31	For the Lord will not cast off forever,
Lamentations	3:32	but, though he cause grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love;
Lamentations	3:33	for he does not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men.
Lamentations	3:34	To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth,
Lamentations	3:35	to deny a man justice in the presence of the Most High,
Lamentations	3:36	to subvert a man in his lawsuit, the Lord does not approve.
Lamentations	3:37	Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it?
Lamentations	3:38	Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come?
Lamentations	3:39	Why should a living man complain, a man, about the punishment of his sins?
Lamentations	3:40	Let us test and examine our ways, and return to the LORD!
Lamentations	3:41	Let us lift up our hearts and hands to God in heaven:
Lamentations	3:42	"We have transgressed and rebelled, and you have not forgiven.
Lamentations	3:43	"You have wrapped yourself with anger and pursued us, killing without pity;
Lamentations	3:44	you have wrapped yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through.
Lamentations	3:45	You have made us scum and garbage among the peoples.
Lamentations	3:46	"All our enemies open their mouths against us;
Lamentations	3:47	panic and pitfall have come upon us, devastation and destruction;
Lamentations	3:48	my eyes flow with rivers of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations	3:49	"My eyes will flow without ceasing, without respite,
Lamentations	3:50	until the LORD from heaven looks down and sees;
Lamentations	3:51	my eyes cause me grief at the fate of all the daughters of my city.
Lamentations	3:52	"I have been hunted like a bird by those who were my enemies without cause;
Lamentations	3:53	they flung me alive into the pit and cast stones on me;
Lamentations	3:54	water closed over my head; I said, 'I am lost.'
Lamentations	3:55	"I called on your name, O LORD, from the depths of the pit;
Lamentations	3:56	you heard my plea, 'Do not close your ear to my cry for help!'
Lamentations	3:57	You came near when I called on you; you said, 'Do not fear!'
Lamentations	3:58	"You have taken up my cause, O Lord; you have redeemed my life.
Lamentations	3:59	You have seen the wrong done to me, O LORD; judge my cause.
Lamentations	3:60	You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me.
Lamentations	3:61	"You have heard their taunts, O LORD, all their plots against me.
Lamentations	3:62	The lips and thoughts of my assailants are against me all the day long.
Lamentations	3:63	Behold their sitting and their rising; I am the object of their taunts.
Lamentations	3:64	"You will repay them, O LORD, according to the work of their hands.
Lamentations	3:65	You will give them dullness of heart; your curse will be on them.
Lamentations	3:66	You will pursue them in anger and destroy them from under your heavens, O LORD."
Lamentations	4:1	How the gold has grown dim, how the pure gold is changed! The holy stones lie scattered at the head of every street.
Lamentations	4:2	The precious sons of Zion, worth their weight in fine gold, how they are regarded as earthen pots, the work of a potter's hands!
Lamentations	4:3	Even jackals offer the breast; they nurse their young, but the daughter of my people has become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.
Lamentations	4:4	The tongue of the nursing infant sticks to the roof of its mouth for thirst; the children beg for food, but no one gives to them.
Lamentations	4:5	Those who once feasted on delicacies perish in the streets; those who were brought up in purple embrace ash heaps.
Lamentations	4:6	For the chastisement of the daughter of my people has been greater than the punishment of Sodom, which was overthrown in a moment, and no hands were wrung for her.
Lamentations	4:7	Her princes were purer than snow, whiter than milk; their bodies were more ruddy than coral, the beauty of their form was like sapphire.
Lamentations	4:8	Now their face is blacker than soot; they are not recognized in the streets; their skin has shriveled on their bones; it has become as dry as wood.
Lamentations	4:9	Happier were the victims of the sword than the victims of hunger, who wasted away, pierced by lack of the fruits of the field.
Lamentations	4:10	The hands of compassionate women have boiled their own children; they became their food during the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations	4:11	The LORD gave full vent to his wrath; he poured out his hot anger, and he kindled a fire in Zion that consumed its foundations.
Lamentations	4:12	The kings of the earth did not believe, nor any of the inhabitants of the world, that foe or enemy could enter the gates of Jerusalem.
Lamentations	4:13	This was for the sins of her prophets and the iniquities of her priests, who shed in the midst of her the blood of the righteous.
Lamentations	4:14	They wandered, blind, through the streets; they were so defiled with blood that no one was able to touch their garments.
Lamentations	4:15	"Away! Unclean!" people cried at them. "Away! Away! Do not touch!" So they became fugitives and wanderers; people said among the nations, "They shall stay with us no longer."
Lamentations	4:16	The LORD himself has scattered them; he will regard them no more; no honor was shown to the priests, no favor to the elders.
Lamentations	4:17	Our eyes failed, ever watching vainly for help; in our watching we watched for a nation which could not save.
Lamentations	4:18	They dogged our steps so that we could not walk in our streets; our end drew near; our days were numbered, for our end had come.
Lamentations	4:19	Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles in the heavens; they chased us on the mountains; they lay in wait for us in the wilderness.
Lamentations	4:20	The breath of our nostrils, the LORD's anointed, was captured in their pits, of whom we said, "Under his shadow we shall live among the nations."
Lamentations	4:21	Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, you who dwell in the land of Uz; but to you also the cup shall pass; you shall become drunk and strip yourself bare.
Lamentations	4:22	The punishment of your iniquity, O daughter of Zion, is accomplished; he will keep you in exile no longer; but your iniquity, O daughter of Edom, he will punish; he will uncover your sins.
Lamentations	5:1	Remember, O LORD, what has befallen us; look, and see our disgrace!
Lamentations	5:2	Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, our homes to foreigners.
Lamentations	5:3	We have become orphans, fatherless; our mothers are like widows.
Lamentations	5:4	We must pay for the water we drink; the wood we get must be bought.
Lamentations	5:5	Our pursuers are at our necks; we are weary; we are given no rest.
Lamentations	5:6	We have given the hand to Egypt, and to Assyria, to get bread enough.
Lamentations	5:7	Our fathers sinned, and are no more; and we bear their iniquities.
Lamentations	5:8	Slaves rule over us; there is none to deliver us from their hand.
Lamentations	5:9	We get our bread at the peril of our lives, because of the sword in the wilderness.
Lamentations	5:10	Our skin is hot as an oven with the burning heat of famine.
Lamentations	5:11	Women are raped in Zion, young women in the towns of Judah.
Lamentations	5:12	Princes are hung up by their hands; no respect is shown to the elders.
Lamentations	5:13	Young men are compelled to grind at the mill, and boys stagger under loads of wood.
Lamentations	5:14	The old men have left the city gate, the young men their music.
Lamentations	5:15	The joy of our hearts has ceased; our dancing has been turned to mourning.
Lamentations	5:16	The crown has fallen from our head; woe to us, for we have sinned!
Lamentations	5:17	For this our heart has become sick, for these things our eyes have grown dim,
Lamentations	5:18	for Mount Zion which lies desolate; jackals prowl over it.
Lamentations	5:19	But you, O LORD, reign forever; your throne endures to all generations.
Lamentations	5:20	Why do you forget us forever, why do you forsake us for so many days?
Lamentations	5:21	Restore us to yourself, O LORD, that we may be restored! Renew our days as of old--
Lamentations	5:22	unless you have utterly rejected us, and you remain exceedingly angry with us.
Ezekiel	1:1	In the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the Chebar canal, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.
Ezekiel	1:2	On the fifth day of the month (it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoiachin),
Ezekiel	1:3	the word of the LORD came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the Chebar canal, and the hand of the LORD was upon him there.
Ezekiel	1:4	As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud, with brightness around it, and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were gleaming metal.
Ezekiel	1:5	And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they had a human likeness,
Ezekiel	1:6	but each had four faces, and each of them had four wings.
Ezekiel	1:7	Their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot. And they sparkled like burnished bronze.
Ezekiel	1:8	Under their wings on their four sides they had human hands. And the four had their faces and their wings thus:
Ezekiel	1:9	their wings touched one another. Each one of them went straight forward, without turning as they went.
Ezekiel	1:10	As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face. The four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle.
Ezekiel	1:11	Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies.
Ezekiel	1:12	And each went straight forward. Wherever the spirit would go, they went, without turning as they went.
Ezekiel	1:13	As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches moving to and fro among the living creatures. And the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
Ezekiel	1:14	And the living creatures darted to and fro, like the appearance of a flash of lightning.
Ezekiel	1:15	Now as I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, one for each of the four of them.
Ezekiel	1:16	As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction: their appearance was like the gleaming of beryl. And the four had the same likeness, their appearance and construction being as it were a wheel within a wheel.
Ezekiel	1:17	When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went.
Ezekiel	1:18	And their rims were tall and awesome, and the rims of all four were full of eyes all around.
Ezekiel	1:19	And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose.
Ezekiel	1:20	Wherever the spirit wanted to go, they went, and the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
Ezekiel	1:21	When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those rose from the earth, the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
Ezekiel	1:22	Over the heads of the living creatures there was the likeness of an expanse, shining like awe-inspiring crystal, spread out above their heads.
Ezekiel	1:23	And under the expanse their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another. And each creature had two wings covering its body.
Ezekiel	1:24	And when they went, I heard the sound of their wings like the sound of many waters, like the sound of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they let down their wings.
Ezekiel	1:25	And there came a voice from above the expanse over their heads. When they stood still, they let down their wings.
Ezekiel	1:26	And above the expanse over their heads there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like sapphire; and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance.
Ezekiel	1:27	And upward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it were gleaming metal, like the appearance of fire enclosed all around. And downward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him.
Ezekiel	1:28	Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around.Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking.
Ezekiel	2:1	And he said to me, "Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak with you."
Ezekiel	2:2	And as he spoke to me, the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and I heard him speaking to me.
Ezekiel	2:3	And he said to me, "Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to nations of rebels, who have rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day.
Ezekiel	2:4	The descendants also are impudent and stubborn: I send you to them, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD.'
Ezekiel	2:5	And whether they hear or refuse to hear (for they are a rebellious house) they will know that a prophet has been among them.
Ezekiel	2:6	And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with you and you sit on scorpions. Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	2:7	And you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	2:8	"But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Be not rebellious like that rebellious house; open your mouth and eat what I give you."
Ezekiel	2:9	And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me, and behold, a scroll of a book was in it.
Ezekiel	2:10	And he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe.
Ezekiel	3:1	And he said to me, "Son of man, eat whatever you find here. Eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel."
Ezekiel	3:2	So I opened my mouth, and he gave me this scroll to eat.
Ezekiel	3:3	And he said to me, "Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with it." Then I ate it, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey.
Ezekiel	3:4	And he said to me, "Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them.
Ezekiel	3:5	For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel--
Ezekiel	3:6	not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you to such, they would listen to you.
Ezekiel	3:7	But the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you, for they are not willing to listen to me. Because all the house of Israel have a hard forehead and a stubborn heart.
Ezekiel	3:8	Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads.
Ezekiel	3:9	Like emery harder than flint have I made your forehead. Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house."
Ezekiel	3:10	Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart, and hear with your ears.
Ezekiel	3:11	And go to the exiles, to your people, and speak to them and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' whether they hear or refuse to hear."
Ezekiel	3:12	Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great earthquake: "Blessed be the glory of the LORD from its place!"
Ezekiel	3:13	It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the sound of the wheels beside them, and the sound of a great earthquake.
Ezekiel	3:14	The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the LORD being strong upon me.
Ezekiel	3:15	And I came to the exiles at Tel-abib, who were dwelling by the Chebar canal, and I sat where they were dwelling. And I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days.
Ezekiel	3:16	And at the end of seven days, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	3:17	"Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
Ezekiel	3:18	If I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel	3:19	But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul.
Ezekiel	3:20	Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. Because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin, and his righteous deeds that he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel	3:21	But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he took warning, and you will have delivered your soul."
Ezekiel	3:22	And the hand of the LORD was upon me there. And he said to me, "Arise, go out into the valley, and there I will speak with you."
Ezekiel	3:23	So I arose and went out into the valley, and behold, the glory of the LORD stood there, like the glory that I had seen by the Chebar canal, and I fell on my face.
Ezekiel	3:24	But the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and he spoke with me and said to me, "Go, shut yourself within your house.
Ezekiel	3:25	And you, O son of man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people.
Ezekiel	3:26	And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute and unable to reprove them, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	3:27	But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD.' He who will hear, let him hear; and he who will refuse to hear, let him refuse, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	4:1	"And you, son of man, take a brick and lay it before you, and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem.
Ezekiel	4:2	And put siegeworks against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it. Set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around.
Ezekiel	4:3	And you, take an iron griddle, and place it as an iron wall between you and the city; and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	4:4	"Then lie on your left side, and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of the days that you lie on it, you shall bear their punishment.
Ezekiel	4:5	For I assign to you a number of days, 390 days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment. So long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	4:6	And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and bear the punishment of the house of Judah. Forty days I assign you, a day for each year.
Ezekiel	4:7	And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against the city.
Ezekiel	4:8	And behold, I will place cords upon you, so that you cannot turn from one side to the other, till you have completed the days of your siege.
Ezekiel	4:9	"And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them into a single vessel and make your bread from them. During the number of days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat it.
Ezekiel	4:10	And your food that you eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day; from day to day you shall eat it.
Ezekiel	4:11	And water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hin; from day to day you shall drink.
Ezekiel	4:12	And you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung."
Ezekiel	4:13	And the LORD said, "Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where I will drive them."
Ezekiel	4:14	Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, I have never defiled myself. From my youth up till now I have never eaten what died of itself or was torn by beasts, nor has tainted meat come into my mouth."
Ezekiel	4:15	Then he said to me, "See, I assign to you cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may prepare your bread."
Ezekiel	4:16	Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, behold, I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay.
Ezekiel	4:17	I will do this that they may lack bread and water, and look at one another in dismay, and rot away because of their punishment.
Ezekiel	5:1	"And you, O son of man, take a sharp sword. Use it as a barber's razor and pass it over your head and your beard. Then take balances for weighing and divide the hair.
Ezekiel	5:2	A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are completed. And a third part you shall take and strike with the sword all around the city. And a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel	5:3	And you shall take from these a small number and bind them in the skirts of your robe.
Ezekiel	5:4	And of these again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	5:5	"Thus says the Lord GOD: This is Jerusalem. I have set her in the center of the nations, with countries all around her.
Ezekiel	5:6	And she has rebelled against my rules by doing wickedness more than the nations, and against my statutes more than the countries all around her; for they have rejected my rules and have not walked in my statutes.
Ezekiel	5:7	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you are more turbulent than the nations that are all around you, and have not walked in my statutes or obeyed my rules, and have not even acted according to the rules of the nations that are all around you,
Ezekiel	5:8	therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, am against you. And I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations.
Ezekiel	5:9	And because of all your abominations I will do with you what I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again.
Ezekiel	5:10	Therefore fathers shall eat their sons in your midst, and sons shall eat their fathers. And I will execute judgments on you, and any of you who survive I will scatter to all the winds.
Ezekiel	5:11	Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, therefore I will withdraw. My eye will not spare, and I will have no pity.
Ezekiel	5:12	A third part of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed with famine in your midst; a third part shall fall by the sword all around you; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds and will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel	5:13	"Thus shall my anger spend itself, and I will vent my fury upon them and satisfy myself. And they shall know that I am the LORD--that I have spoken in my jealousy--when I spend my fury upon them.
Ezekiel	5:14	Moreover, I will make you a desolation and an object of reproach among the nations all around you and in the sight of all who pass by.
Ezekiel	5:15	You shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror, to the nations all around you, when I execute judgments on you in anger and fury, and with furious rebukes--I am the LORD, I have spoken--
Ezekiel	5:16	when I send against you the deadly arrows of famine, arrows for destruction, which I will send to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you and break your supply of bread.
Ezekiel	5:17	I will send famine and wild beasts against you, and they will rob you of your children. Pestilence and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I am the LORD; I have spoken."
Ezekiel	6:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	6:2	"Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
Ezekiel	6:3	and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD! Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
Ezekiel	6:4	Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain before your idols.
Ezekiel	6:5	And I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
Ezekiel	6:6	Wherever you dwell, the cities shall be waste and the high places ruined, so that your altars will be waste and ruined, your idols broken and destroyed, your incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out.
Ezekiel	6:7	And the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	6:8	"Yet I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escape the sword, and when you are scattered through the countries,
Ezekiel	6:9	then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive, how I have been broken over their whoring heart that has departed from me and over their eyes that go whoring after their idols. And they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their abominations.
Ezekiel	6:10	And they shall know that I am the LORD. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them."
Ezekiel	6:11	Thus says the Lord GOD: "Clap your hands and stamp your foot and say, Alas, because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.
Ezekiel	6:12	He who is far off shall die of pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who is left and is preserved shall die of famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them.
Ezekiel	6:13	And you shall know that I am the LORD, when their slain lie among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, wherever they offered pleasing aroma to all their idols.
Ezekiel	6:14	And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste, in all their dwelling places, from the wilderness to Riblah. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	7:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	7:2	"And you, O son of man, thus says the Lord GOD to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land.
Ezekiel	7:3	Now the end is upon you, and I will send my anger upon you; I will judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Ezekiel	7:4	And my eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity, but I will punish you for your ways, while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	7:5	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Disaster after disaster! Behold, it comes.
Ezekiel	7:6	An end has come; the end has come; it has awakened against you. Behold, it comes.
Ezekiel	7:7	Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come; the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting on the mountains.
Ezekiel	7:8	Now I will soon pour out my wrath upon you, and spend my anger against you, and judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Ezekiel	7:9	And my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will punish you according to your ways, while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD, who strikes.
Ezekiel	7:10	"Behold, the day! Behold, it comes! Your doom has come; the rod has blossomed; pride has budded.
Ezekiel	7:11	Violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain, nor their abundance, nor their wealth; neither shall there be preeminence among them.
Ezekiel	7:12	The time has come; the day has arrived. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all their multitude.
Ezekiel	7:13	For the seller shall not return to what he has sold, while they live. For the vision concerns all their multitude; it shall not turn back; and because of his iniquity, none can maintain his life.
Ezekiel	7:14	"They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but none goes to battle, for my wrath is upon all their multitude.
Ezekiel	7:15	The sword is without; pestilence and famine are within. He who is in the field dies by the sword, and him who is in the city famine and pestilence devour.
Ezekiel	7:16	And if any survivors escape, they will be on the mountains, like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, each one over his iniquity.
Ezekiel	7:17	All hands are feeble, and all knees turn to water.
Ezekiel	7:18	They put on sackcloth, and horror covers them. Shame is on all faces, and baldness on all their heads.
Ezekiel	7:19	They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.
Ezekiel	7:20	His beautiful ornament they used for pride, and they made their abominable images and their detestable things of it. Therefore I make it an unclean thing to them.
Ezekiel	7:21	And I will give it into the hands of foreigners for prey, and to the wicked of the earth for spoil, and they shall profane it.
Ezekiel	7:22	I will turn my face from them, and they shall profane my treasured place. Robbers shall enter and profane it.
Ezekiel	7:23	"Forge a chain! For the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence.
Ezekiel	7:24	I will bring the worst of the nations to take possession of their houses. I will put an end to the pride of the strong, and their holy places shall be profaned.
Ezekiel	7:25	When anguish comes, they will seek peace, but there shall be none.
Ezekiel	7:26	Disaster comes upon disaster; rumor follows rumor. They seek a vision from the prophet, while the law perishes from the priest and counsel from the elders.
Ezekiel	7:27	The king mourns, the prince is wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are paralyzed by terror. According to their way I will do to them, and according to their judgments I will judge them, and they shall know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	8:1	In the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house, with the elders of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord GOD fell upon me there.
Ezekiel	8:2	Then I looked, and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man. Below what appeared to be his waist was fire, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal.
Ezekiel	8:3	He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head, and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.
Ezekiel	8:4	And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the vision that I saw in the valley.
Ezekiel	8:5	Then he said to me, "Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north." So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy.
Ezekiel	8:6	And he said to me, "Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations."
Ezekiel	8:7	And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall.
Ezekiel	8:8	Then he said to me, "Son of man, dig in the wall." So I dug in the wall, and behold, there was an entrance.
Ezekiel	8:9	And he said to me, "Go in, and see the vile abominations that they are committing here."
Ezekiel	8:10	So I went in and saw. And there, engraved on the wall all around, was every form of creeping things and loathsome beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	8:11	And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan standing among them. Each had his censer in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up.
Ezekiel	8:12	Then he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, 'The LORD does not see us, the LORD has forsaken the land.'"
Ezekiel	8:13	He said also to me, "You will see still greater abominations that they commit."
Ezekiel	8:14	Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the LORD, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.
Ezekiel	8:15	Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these."
Ezekiel	8:16	And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the LORD. And behold, at the entrance of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men, with their backs to the temple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east, worshiping the sun toward the east.
Ezekiel	8:17	Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here, that they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still further to anger? Behold, they put the branch to their nose.
Ezekiel	8:18	Therefore I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them."
Ezekiel	9:1	Then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, "Bring near the executioners of the city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand."
Ezekiel	9:2	And behold, six men came from the direction of the upper gate, which faces north, each with his weapon for slaughter in his hand, and with them was a man clothed in linen, with a writing case at his waist. And they went in and stood beside the bronze altar.
Ezekiel	9:3	Now the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherub on which it rested to the threshold of the house. And he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writing case at his waist.
Ezekiel	9:4	And the LORD said to him, "Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in it."
Ezekiel	9:5	And to the others he said in my hearing, "Pass through the city after him, and strike. Your eye shall not spare, and you shall show no pity.
Ezekiel	9:6	Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women, but touch no one on whom is the mark. And begin at my sanctuary." So they began with the elders who were before the house.
Ezekiel	9:7	Then he said to them, "Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain. Go out." So they went out and struck in the city.
Ezekiel	9:8	And while they were striking, and I was left alone, I fell upon my face, and cried, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will you destroy all the remnant of Israel in the outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem?"
Ezekiel	9:9	Then he said to me, "The guilt of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great. The land is full of blood, and the city full of injustice. For they say, 'The LORD has forsaken the land, and the LORD does not see.'
Ezekiel	9:10	As for me, my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity; I will bring their deeds upon their heads."
Ezekiel	9:11	And behold, the man clothed in linen, with the writing case at his waist, brought back word, saying, "I have done as you commanded me."
Ezekiel	10:1	Then I looked, and behold, on the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim there appeared above them something like a sapphire, in appearance like a throne.
Ezekiel	10:2	And he said to the man clothed in linen, "Go in among the whirling wheels underneath the cherubim. Fill your hands with burning coals from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city."And he went in before my eyes.
Ezekiel	10:3	Now the cherubim were standing on the south side of the house, when the man went in, and a cloud filled the inner court.
Ezekiel	10:4	And the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub to the threshold of the house, and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the LORD.
Ezekiel	10:5	And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of God Almighty when he speaks.
Ezekiel	10:6	And when he commanded the man clothed in linen, "Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim," he went in and stood beside a wheel.
Ezekiel	10:7	And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took some of it and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out.
Ezekiel	10:8	The cherubim appeared to have the form of a human hand under their wings.
Ezekiel	10:9	And I looked, and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim, one beside each cherub, and the appearance of the wheels was like sparkling beryl.
Ezekiel	10:10	And as for their appearance, the four had the same likeness, as if a wheel were within a wheel.
Ezekiel	10:11	When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went, but in whatever direction the front wheel faced, the others followed without turning as they went.
Ezekiel	10:12	And their whole body, their rims, and their spokes, their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes all around--the wheels that the four of them had.
Ezekiel	10:13	As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing "the whirling wheels."
Ezekiel	10:14	And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, and the second face was a human face, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
Ezekiel	10:15	And the cherubim mounted up. These were the living creatures that I saw by the Chebar canal.
Ezekiel	10:16	And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them. And when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them.
Ezekiel	10:17	When they stood still, these stood still, and when they mounted up, these mounted up with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in them.
Ezekiel	10:18	Then the glory of the LORD went out from the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim.
Ezekiel	10:19	And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth before my eyes as they went out, with the wheels beside them. And they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the house of the LORD, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them.
Ezekiel	10:20	These were the living creatures that I saw underneath the God of Israel by the Chebar canal; and I knew that they were cherubim.
Ezekiel	10:21	Each had four faces, and each four wings, and underneath their wings the likeness of human hands.
Ezekiel	10:22	And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces whose appearance I had seen by the Chebar canal. Each one of them went straight forward.
Ezekiel	11:1	The Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of the LORD, which faces east. And behold, at the entrance of the gateway there were twenty-five men. And I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
Ezekiel	11:2	And he said to me, "Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and who give wicked counsel in this city;
Ezekiel	11:3	who say, 'The time is not near to build houses. This city is the cauldron, and we are the meat.'
Ezekiel	11:4	Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man."
Ezekiel	11:5	And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and he said to me, "Say, Thus says the LORD: So you think, O house of Israel. For I know the things that come into your mind.
Ezekiel	11:6	You have multiplied your slain in this city and have filled its streets with the slain.
Ezekiel	11:7	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the meat, and this city is the cauldron, but you shall be brought out of the midst of it.
Ezekiel	11:8	You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	11:9	And I will bring you out of the midst of it, and give you into the hands of foreigners, and execute judgments upon you.
Ezekiel	11:10	You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you at the border of Israel, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	11:11	This city shall not be your cauldron, nor shall you be the meat in the midst of it. I will judge you at the border of Israel,
Ezekiel	11:12	and you shall know that I am the LORD. For you have not walked in my statutes, nor obeyed my rules, but have acted according to the rules of the nations that are around you."
Ezekiel	11:13	And it came to pass, while I was prophesying, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down on my face and cried out with a loud voice and said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel?"
Ezekiel	11:14	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	11:15	"Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, all of them, are those of whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, 'Go far from the LORD; to us this land is given for a possession.'
Ezekiel	11:16	Therefore say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Though I removed them far off among the nations, and though I scattered them among the countries, yet I have been a sanctuary to them for a while in the countries where they have gone.'
Ezekiel	11:17	Therefore say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.'
Ezekiel	11:18	And when they come there, they will remove from it all its detestable things and all its abominations.
Ezekiel	11:19	And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,
Ezekiel	11:20	that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel	11:21	But as for those whose heart goes after their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	11:22	Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them.
Ezekiel	11:23	And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city.
Ezekiel	11:24	And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to the exiles. Then the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Ezekiel	11:25	And I told the exiles all the things that the LORD had shown me.
Ezekiel	12:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	12:2	"Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house, who have eyes to see, but see not, who have ears to hear, but hear not, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	12:3	As for you, son of man, prepare for yourself an exile's baggage, and go into exile by day in their sight. You shall go like an exile from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will understand, though they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel	12:4	You shall bring out your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for exile, and you shall go out yourself at evening in their sight, as those do who must go into exile.
Ezekiel	12:5	In their sight dig through the wall, and bring your baggage out through it.
Ezekiel	12:6	In their sight you shall lift the baggage upon your shoulder and carry it out at dusk. You shall cover your face that you may not see the land, for I have made you a sign for the house of Israel."
Ezekiel	12:7	And I did as I was commanded. I brought out my baggage by day, as baggage for exile, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my own hands. I brought out my baggage at dusk, carrying it on my shoulder in their sight.
Ezekiel	12:8	In the morning the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	12:9	"Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, 'What are you doing?'
Ezekiel	12:10	Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: This oracle concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel who are in it.'
Ezekiel	12:11	Say, 'I am a sign for you: as I have done, so shall it be done to them. They shall go into exile, into captivity.'
Ezekiel	12:12	And the prince who is among them shall lift his baggage upon his shoulder at dusk, and shall go out. They shall dig through the wall to bring him out through it. He shall cover his face, that he may not see the land with his eyes.
Ezekiel	12:13	And I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare. And I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans, yet he shall not see it, and he shall die there.
Ezekiel	12:14	And I will scatter toward every wind all who are around him, his helpers and all his troops, and I will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel	12:15	And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them among the countries.
Ezekiel	12:16	But I will let a few of them escape from the sword, from famine and pestilence, that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they go, and may know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	12:17	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	12:18	"Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink water with trembling and with anxiety.
Ezekiel	12:19	And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety, and drink water in dismay. In this way her land will be stripped of all it contains, on account of the violence of all those who dwell in it.
Ezekiel	12:20	And the inhabited cities shall be laid waste, and the land shall become a desolation; and you shall know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	12:21	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	12:22	"Son of man, what is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel, saying, 'The days grow long, and every vision comes to nothing'?
Ezekiel	12:23	Tell them therefore, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel.' But say to them, The days are near, and the fulfillment of every vision.
Ezekiel	12:24	For there shall be no more any false vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	12:25	For I am the LORD; I will speak the word that I will speak, and it will be performed. It will no longer be delayed, but in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and perform it, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	12:26	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	12:27	"Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, 'The vision that he sees is for many days from now, and he prophesies of times far off.'
Ezekiel	12:28	Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: None of my words will be delayed any longer, but the word that I speak will be performed, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	13:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	13:2	"Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel, who are prophesying, and say to those who prophesy from their own hearts: 'Hear the word of the LORD!'
Ezekiel	13:3	Thus says the Lord GOD, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
Ezekiel	13:4	Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel.
Ezekiel	13:5	You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the LORD.
Ezekiel	13:6	They have seen false visions and lying divinations. They say, 'Declares the LORD,' when the LORD has not sent them, and yet they expect him to fulfill their word.
Ezekiel	13:7	Have you not seen a false vision and uttered a lying divination, whenever you have said, 'Declares the LORD,' although I have not spoken?"
Ezekiel	13:8	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "Because you have uttered falsehood and seen lying visions, therefore behold, I am against you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	13:9	My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and who give lying divinations. They shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	13:10	Precisely because they have misled my people, saying, 'Peace,' when there is no peace, and because, when the people build a wall, these prophets smear it with whitewash,
Ezekiel	13:11	say to those who smear it with whitewash that it shall fall! There will be a deluge of rain, and you, O great hailstones, will fall, and a stormy wind break out.
Ezekiel	13:12	And when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, 'Where is the coating with which you smeared it?'
Ezekiel	13:13	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I will make a stormy wind break out in my wrath, and there shall be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to make a full end.
Ezekiel	13:14	And I will break down the wall that you have smeared with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation will be laid bare. When it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	13:15	Thus will I spend my wrath upon the wall and upon those who have smeared it with whitewash, and I will say to you, The wall is no more, nor those who smeared it,
Ezekiel	13:16	the prophets of Israel who prophesied concerning Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for her, when there was no peace, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	13:17	"And you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of their own minds. Prophesy against them
Ezekiel	13:18	and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women who sew magic bands upon all wrists, and make veils for the heads of persons of every stature, in the hunt for souls! Will you hunt down souls belonging to my people and keep your own souls alive?
Ezekiel	13:19	You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, putting to death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live, by your lying to my people, who listen to lies.
Ezekiel	13:20	"Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against your magic bands with which you hunt the souls like birds, and I will tear them from your arms, and I will let the souls whom you hunt go free, the souls like birds.
Ezekiel	13:21	Your veils also I will tear off and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand as prey, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	13:22	Because you have disheartened the righteous falsely, although I have not grieved him, and you have encouraged the wicked, that he should not turn from his evil way to save his life,
Ezekiel	13:23	therefore you shall no more see false visions nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand. And you shall know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	14:1	Then certain of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me.
Ezekiel	14:2	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	14:3	"Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts, and set the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them?
Ezekiel	14:4	Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Any one of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to the prophet, I the LORD will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols,
Ezekiel	14:5	that I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel, who are all estranged from me through their idols.
Ezekiel	14:6	"Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations.
Ezekiel	14:7	For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, who separates himself from me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to a prophet to consult me through him, I the LORD will answer him myself.
Ezekiel	14:8	And I will set my face against that man; I will make him a sign and a byword and cut him off from the midst of my people, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	14:9	And if the prophet is deceived and speaks a word, I, the LORD, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
Ezekiel	14:10	And they shall bear their punishment--the punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the inquirer shall be alike--
Ezekiel	14:11	that the house of Israel may no more go astray from me, nor defile themselves anymore with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	14:12	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	14:13	"Son of man, when a land sins against me by acting faithlessly, and I stretch out my hand against it and break its supply of bread and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel	14:14	even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	14:15	"If I cause wild beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no one may pass through because of the beasts,
Ezekiel	14:16	even if these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters. They alone would be delivered, but the land would be desolate.
Ezekiel	14:17	"Or if I bring a sword upon that land and say, Let a sword pass through the land, and I cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel	14:18	though these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they alone would be delivered.
Ezekiel	14:19	"Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my wrath upon it with blood, to cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel	14:20	even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither son nor daughter. They would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness.
Ezekiel	14:21	"For thus says the Lord GOD: How much more when I send upon Jerusalem my four disastrous acts of judgment, sword, famine, wild beasts, and pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast!
Ezekiel	14:22	But behold, some survivors will be left in it, sons and daughters who will be brought out; behold, when they come out to you, and you see their ways and their deeds, you will be consoled for the disaster that I have brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.
Ezekiel	14:23	They will console you, when you see their ways and their deeds, and you shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	15:1	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	15:2	"Son of man, how does the wood of the vine surpass any wood, the vine branch that is among the trees of the forest?
Ezekiel	15:3	Is wood taken from it to make anything? Do people take a peg from it to hang any vessel on it?
Ezekiel	15:4	Behold, it is given to the fire for fuel. When the fire has consumed both ends of it, and the middle of it is charred, is it useful for anything?
Ezekiel	15:5	Behold, when it was whole, it was used for nothing. How much less, when the fire has consumed it and it is charred, can it ever be used for anything!
Ezekiel	15:6	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Ezekiel	15:7	And I will set my face against them. Though they escape from the fire, the fire shall yet consume them, and you will know that I am the LORD, when I set my face against them.
Ezekiel	15:8	And I will make the land desolate, because they have acted faithlessly, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	16:1	Again the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	16:2	"Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations,
Ezekiel	16:3	and say, Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanites; your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite.
Ezekiel	16:4	And as for your birth, on the day you were born your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in swaddling cloths.
Ezekiel	16:5	No eye pitied you, to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you, but you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred, on the day that you were born.
Ezekiel	16:6	"And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you in your blood, 'Live!' I said to you in your blood, 'Live!'
Ezekiel	16:7	I made you flourish like a plant of the field. And you grew up and became tall and arrived at full adornment. Your breasts were formed, and your hair had grown; yet you were naked and bare.
Ezekiel	16:8	"When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love, and I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness; I made my vow to you and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord GOD, and you became mine.
Ezekiel	16:9	Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil.
Ezekiel	16:10	I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk.
Ezekiel	16:11	And I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck.
Ezekiel	16:12	And I put a ring on your nose and earrings in your ears and a beautiful crown on your head.
Ezekiel	16:13	Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty.
Ezekiel	16:14	And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	16:15	"But you trusted in your beauty and played the whore because of your renown and lavished your whorings on any passerby; your beauty became his.
Ezekiel	16:16	You took some of your garments and made for yourself colorful shrines, and on them played the whore. The like has never been, nor ever shall be.
Ezekiel	16:17	You also took your beautiful jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself images of men, and with them played the whore.
Ezekiel	16:18	And you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
Ezekiel	16:19	Also my bread that I gave you--I fed you with fine flour and oil and honey--you set before them for a pleasing aroma; and so it was, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	16:20	And you took your sons and your daughters, whom you had borne to me, and these you sacrificed to them to be devoured. Were your whorings so small a matter
Ezekiel	16:21	that you slaughtered my children and delivered them up as an offering by fire to them?
Ezekiel	16:22	And in all your abominations and your whorings you did not remember the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare, wallowing in your blood.
Ezekiel	16:23	"And after all your wickedness (woe, woe to you! declares the Lord GOD),
Ezekiel	16:24	you built yourself a vaulted chamber and made yourself a lofty place in every square.
Ezekiel	16:25	At the head of every street you built your lofty place and made your beauty an abomination, offering yourself to any passerby and multiplying your whoring.
Ezekiel	16:26	You also played the whore with the Egyptians, your lustful neighbors, multiplying your whoring, to provoke me to anger.
Ezekiel	16:27	Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you and diminished your allotted portion and delivered you to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior.
Ezekiel	16:28	You played the whore also with the Assyrians, because you were not satisfied; yes, you played the whore with them, and still you were not satisfied.
Ezekiel	16:29	You multiplied your whoring also with the trading land of Chaldea, and even with this you were not satisfied.
Ezekiel	16:30	"How lovesick is your heart, declares the Lord GOD, because you did all these things, the deeds of a brazen prostitute,
Ezekiel	16:31	building your vaulted chamber at the head of every street, and making your lofty place in every square. Yet you were not like a prostitute, because you scorned payment.
Ezekiel	16:32	Adulterous wife, who receives strangers instead of her husband!
Ezekiel	16:33	Men give gifts to all prostitutes, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from every side with your whorings.
Ezekiel	16:34	So you were different from other women in your whorings. No one solicited you to play the whore, and you gave payment, while no payment was given to you; therefore you were different.
Ezekiel	16:35	"Therefore, O prostitute, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel	16:36	Thus says the Lord GOD, Because your lust was poured out and your nakedness uncovered in your whorings with your lovers, and with all your abominable idols, and because of the blood of your children that you gave to them,
Ezekiel	16:37	therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you took pleasure, all those you loved and all those you hated. I will gather them against you from every side and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness.
Ezekiel	16:38	And I will judge you as women who commit adultery and shed blood are judged, and bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy.
Ezekiel	16:39	And I will give you into their hands, and they shall throw down your vaulted chamber and break down your lofty places. They shall strip you of your clothes and take your beautiful jewels and leave you naked and bare.
Ezekiel	16:40	They shall bring up a crowd against you, and they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords.
Ezekiel	16:41	And they shall burn your houses and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. I will make you stop playing the whore, and you shall also give payment no more.
Ezekiel	16:42	So will I satisfy my wrath on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be calm and will no more be angry.
Ezekiel	16:43	Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have enraged me with all these things, therefore, behold, I have returned your deeds upon your head, declares the Lord GOD. "Have you not committed lewdness in addition to all your abominations?
Ezekiel	16:44	"Behold, everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb about you: 'Like mother, like daughter.'
Ezekiel	16:45	You are the daughter of your mother, who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite.
Ezekiel	16:46	And your elder sister is Samaria, who lived with her daughters to the north of you; and your younger sister, who lived to the south of you, is Sodom with her daughters.
Ezekiel	16:47	Not only did you walk in their ways and do according to their abominations; within a very little time you were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
Ezekiel	16:48	As I live, declares the Lord GOD, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done.
Ezekiel	16:49	Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy.
Ezekiel	16:50	They were haughty and did an abomination before me. So I removed them, when I saw it.
Ezekiel	16:51	Samaria has not committed half your sins. You have committed more abominations than they, and have made your sisters appear righteous by all the abominations that you have committed.
Ezekiel	16:52	Bear your disgrace, you also, for you have intervened on behalf of your sisters. Because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they, they are more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also, and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous.
Ezekiel	16:53	"I will restore their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in their midst,
Ezekiel	16:54	that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done, becoming a consolation to them.
Ezekiel	16:55	As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former state, and you and your daughters shall return to your former state.
Ezekiel	16:56	Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in the day of your pride,
Ezekiel	16:57	before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become an object of reproach for the daughters of Syria and all those around her, and for the daughters of the Philistines, those all around who despise you.
Ezekiel	16:58	You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your abominations, declares the LORD.
Ezekiel	16:59	"For thus says the Lord GOD: I will deal with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant,
Ezekiel	16:60	yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish for you an everlasting covenant.
Ezekiel	16:61	Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your elder and your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you.
Ezekiel	16:62	I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the LORD,
Ezekiel	16:63	that you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	17:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	17:2	"Son of man, propound a riddle, and speak a parable to the house of Israel;
Ezekiel	17:3	say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A great eagle with great wings and long pinions, rich in plumage of many colors, came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar.
Ezekiel	17:4	He broke off the topmost of its young twigs and carried it to a land of trade and set it in a city of merchants.
Ezekiel	17:5	Then he took of the seed of the land and planted it in fertile soil. He placed it beside abundant waters. He set it like a willow twig,
Ezekiel	17:6	and it sprouted and became a low spreading vine, and its branches turned toward him, and its roots remained where it stood. So it became a vine and produced branches and put out boughs.
Ezekiel	17:7	"And there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage, and behold, this vine bent its roots toward him and shot forth its branches toward him from the bed where it was planted, that he might water it.
Ezekiel	17:8	It had been planted on good soil by abundant waters, that it might produce branches and bear fruit and become a noble vine.
Ezekiel	17:9	"Say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit, so that it withers, so that all its fresh sprouting leaves wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it from its roots.
Ezekiel	17:10	Behold, it is planted; will it thrive? Will it not utterly wither when the east wind strikes it--wither away on the bed where it sprouted?"
Ezekiel	17:11	Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	17:12	"Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know what these things mean? Tell them, behold, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took her king and her princes and brought them to him to Babylon.
Ezekiel	17:13	And he took one of the royal offspring and made a covenant with him, putting him under oath (the chief men of the land he had taken away),
Ezekiel	17:14	that the kingdom might be humble and not lift itself up, and keep his covenant that it might stand.
Ezekiel	17:15	But he rebelled against him by sending his ambassadors to Egypt, that they might give him horses and a large army. Will he thrive? Can one escape who does such things? Can he break the covenant and yet escape?
Ezekiel	17:16	"As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely in the place where the king dwells who made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant with him he broke, in Babylon he shall die.
Ezekiel	17:17	Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company will not help him in war, when mounds are cast up and siege walls built to cut off many lives.
Ezekiel	17:18	He despised the oath in breaking the covenant, and behold, he gave his hand and did all these things; he shall not escape.
Ezekiel	17:19	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely it is my oath that he despised, and my covenant that he broke. I will return it upon his head.
Ezekiel	17:20	I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon and enter into judgment with him there for the treachery he has committed against me.
Ezekiel	17:21	And all the pick of his troops shall fall by the sword, and the survivors shall be scattered to every wind, and you shall know that I am the LORD; I have spoken."
Ezekiel	17:22	Thus says the Lord GOD: "I myself will take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar and will set it out. I will break off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I myself will plant it on a high and lofty mountain.
Ezekiel	17:23	On the mountain height of Israel will I plant it, that it may bear branches and produce fruit and become a noble cedar. And under it will dwell every kind of bird; in the shade of its branches birds of every sort will nest.
Ezekiel	17:24	And all the trees of the field shall know that I am the LORD; I bring low the high tree, and make high the low tree, dry up the green tree, and make the dry tree flourish. I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it."
Ezekiel	18:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	18:2	"What do you mean by repeating this proverb concerning the land of Israel, 'The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge'?
Ezekiel	18:3	As I live, declares the Lord GOD, this proverb shall no more be used by you in Israel.
Ezekiel	18:4	Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins shall die.
Ezekiel	18:5	"If a man is righteous and does what is just and right--
Ezekiel	18:6	if he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of menstrual impurity,
Ezekiel	18:7	does not oppress anyone, but restores to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel	18:8	does not lend at interest or take any profit, withholds his hand from injustice, executes true justice between man and man,
Ezekiel	18:9	walks in my statutes, and keeps my rules by acting faithfully--he is righteous; he shall surely live, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	18:10	"If he fathers a son who is violent, a shedder of blood, who does any of these things
Ezekiel	18:11	(though he himself did none of these things), who even eats upon the mountains, defiles his neighbor's wife,
Ezekiel	18:12	oppresses the poor and needy, commits robbery, does not restore the pledge, lifts up his eyes to the idols, commits abomination,
Ezekiel	18:13	lends at interest, and takes profit; shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon himself.
Ezekiel	18:14	"Now suppose this man fathers a son who sees all the sins that his father has done; he sees, and does not do likewise:
Ezekiel	18:15	he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife,
Ezekiel	18:16	does not oppress anyone, exacts no pledge, commits no robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel	18:17	withholds his hand from iniquity, takes no interest or profit, obeys my rules, and walks in my statutes; he shall not die for his father's iniquity; he shall surely live.
Ezekiel	18:18	As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what is not good among his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity.
Ezekiel	18:19	"Yet you say, 'Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father?' When the son has done what is just and right, and has been careful to observe all my statutes, he shall surely live.
Ezekiel	18:20	The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself.
Ezekiel	18:21	"But if a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel	18:22	None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness that he has done he shall live.
Ezekiel	18:23	Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord GOD, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?
Ezekiel	18:24	But when a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice and does the same abominations that the wicked person does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered; for the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, for them he shall die.
Ezekiel	18:25	"Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' Hear now, O house of Israel: Is my way not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
Ezekiel	18:26	When a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it; for the injustice that he has done he shall die.
Ezekiel	18:27	Again, when a wicked person turns away from the wickedness he has committed and does what is just and right, he shall save his life.
Ezekiel	18:28	Because he considered and turned away from all the transgressions that he had committed, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel	18:29	Yet the house of Israel says, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, are my ways not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
Ezekiel	18:30	"Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, declares the Lord GOD. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin.
Ezekiel	18:31	Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit! Why will you die, O house of Israel?
Ezekiel	18:32	For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord GOD; so turn, and live."
Ezekiel	19:1	And you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
Ezekiel	19:2	and say: What was your mother? A lioness! Among lions she crouched; in the midst of young lions she reared her cubs.
Ezekiel	19:3	And she brought up one of her cubs; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men.
Ezekiel	19:4	The nations heard about him; he was caught in their pit, and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel	19:5	When she saw that she waited in vain, that her hope was lost, she took another of her cubs and made him a young lion.
Ezekiel	19:6	He prowled among the lions; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men,
Ezekiel	19:7	and seized their widows. He laid waste their cities, and the land was appalled and all who were in it at the sound of his roaring.
Ezekiel	19:8	Then the nations set against him from provinces on every side; they spread their net over him; he was taken in their pit.
Ezekiel	19:9	With hooks they put him in a cage and brought him to the king of Babylon; they brought him into custody, that his voice should no more be heard on the mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel	19:10	Your mother was like a vine in a vineyard planted by the water, fruitful and full of branches by reason of abundant water.
Ezekiel	19:11	Its strong stems became rulers' scepters; it towered aloft among the thick boughs; it was seen in its height with the mass of its branches.
Ezekiel	19:12	But the vine was plucked up in fury, cast down to the ground; the east wind dried up its fruit; they were stripped off and withered. As for its strong stem, fire consumed it.
Ezekiel	19:13	Now it is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land.
Ezekiel	19:14	And fire has gone out from the stem of its shoots, has consumed its fruit, so that there remains in it no strong stem, no scepter for ruling.This is a lamentation and has become a lamentation.
Ezekiel	20:1	In the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the LORD, and sat before me.
Ezekiel	20:2	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	20:3	"Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD, Is it to inquire of me that you come? As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
Ezekiel	20:4	Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Let them know the abominations of their fathers,
Ezekiel	20:5	and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day when I chose Israel, I swore to the offspring of the house of Jacob, making myself known to them in the land of Egypt; I swore to them, saying, I am the LORD your God.
Ezekiel	20:6	On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands.
Ezekiel	20:7	And I said to them, Cast away the detestable things your eyes feast on, every one of you, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am the LORD your God.
Ezekiel	20:8	But they rebelled against me and were not willing to listen to me. None of them cast away the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt."Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel	20:9	But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they lived, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel	20:10	So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.
Ezekiel	20:11	I gave them my statutes and made known to them my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live.
Ezekiel	20:12	Moreover, I gave them my Sabbaths, as a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the LORD who sanctifies them.
Ezekiel	20:13	But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes but rejected my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned."Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them.
Ezekiel	20:14	But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
Ezekiel	20:15	Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land that I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands,
Ezekiel	20:16	because they rejected my rules and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths; for their heart went after their idols.
Ezekiel	20:17	Nevertheless, my eye spared them, and I did not destroy them or make a full end of them in the wilderness.
Ezekiel	20:18	"And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers, nor keep their rules, nor defile yourselves with their idols.
Ezekiel	20:19	I am the LORD your God; walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules,
Ezekiel	20:20	and keep my Sabbaths holy that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am the LORD your God.
Ezekiel	20:21	But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes and were not careful to obey my rules, by which, if a person does them, he shall live; they profaned my Sabbaths."Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness.
Ezekiel	20:22	But I withheld my hand and acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
Ezekiel	20:23	Moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries,
Ezekiel	20:24	because they had not obeyed my rules, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols.
Ezekiel	20:25	Moreover, I gave them statutes that were not good and rules by which they could not have life,
Ezekiel	20:26	and I defiled them through their very gifts in their offering up all their firstborn, that I might devastate them. I did it that they might know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	20:27	"Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: In this also your fathers blasphemed me, by dealing treacherously with me.
Ezekiel	20:28	For when I had brought them into the land that I swore to give them, then wherever they saw any high hill or any leafy tree, there they offered their sacrifices and there they presented the provocation of their offering; there they sent up their pleasing aromas, and there they poured out their drink offerings.
Ezekiel	20:29	(I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? So its name is called Bamah to this day.)
Ezekiel	20:30	"Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will you defile yourselves after the manner of your fathers and go whoring after their detestable things?
Ezekiel	20:31	When you present your gifts and offer up your children in fire, you defile yourselves with all your idols to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
Ezekiel	20:32	"What is in your mind shall never happen--the thought, 'Let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the countries, and worship wood and stone.'
Ezekiel	20:33	"As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out I will be king over you.
Ezekiel	20:34	I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out.
Ezekiel	20:35	And I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face.
Ezekiel	20:36	As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	20:37	I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
Ezekiel	20:38	I will purge out the rebels from among you, and those who transgress against me. I will bring them out of the land where they sojourn, but they shall not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	20:39	"As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord GOD: Go serve every one of you his idols, now and hereafter, if you will not listen to me; but my holy name you shall no more profane with your gifts and your idols.
Ezekiel	20:40	"For on my holy mountain, the mountain height of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, there all the house of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your contributions and the choicest of your gifts, with all your sacred offerings.
Ezekiel	20:41	As a pleasing aroma I will accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you have been scattered. And I will manifest my holiness among you in the sight of the nations.
Ezekiel	20:42	And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I bring you into the land of Israel, the country that I swore to give to your fathers.
Ezekiel	20:43	And there you shall remember your ways and all your deeds with which you have defiled yourselves, and you shall loathe yourselves for all the evils that you have committed.
Ezekiel	20:44	And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I deal with you for my name's sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	20:45	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	20:46	"Son of man, set your face toward the southland; preach against the south, and prophesy against the forest land in the Negeb.
Ezekiel	20:47	Say to the forest of the Negeb, Hear the word of the LORD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you and every dry tree. The blazing flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it.
Ezekiel	20:48	All flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it; it shall not be quenched."
Ezekiel	20:49	Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! They are saying of me, 'Is he not a maker of parables?'"
Ezekiel	21:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	21:2	"Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and preach against the sanctuaries. Prophesy against the land of Israel
Ezekiel	21:3	and say to the land of Israel, Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am against you and will draw my sword from its sheath and will cut off from you both righteous and wicked.
Ezekiel	21:4	Because I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked, therefore my sword shall be drawn from its sheath against all flesh from south to north.
Ezekiel	21:5	And all flesh shall know that I am the LORD. I have drawn my sword from its sheath; it shall not be sheathed again.
Ezekiel	21:6	"As for you, son of man, groan; with breaking heart and bitter grief, groan before their eyes.
Ezekiel	21:7	And when they say to you, 'Why do you groan?' you shall say, 'Because of the news that it is coming. Every heart will melt, and all hands will be feeble; every spirit will faint, and all knees will be weak as water. Behold, it is coming, and it will be fulfilled,'" declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	21:8	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	21:9	"Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord; Say: "A sword, a sword is sharpened and also polished,
Ezekiel	21:10	sharpened for slaughter, polished to flash like lightning!(Or shall we rejoice? You have despised the rod, my son, with everything of wood.)
Ezekiel	21:11	So the sword is given to be polished, that it may be grasped in the hand. It is sharpened and polished to be given into the hand of the slayer.
Ezekiel	21:12	Cry out and wail, son of man, for it is against my people. It is against all the princes of Israel. They are delivered over to the sword with my people. Strike therefore upon your thigh.
Ezekiel	21:13	For it will not be a testing--what could it do if you despise the rod?" declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	21:14	"As for you, son of man, prophesy. Clap your hands and let the sword come down twice, yes, three times, the sword for those to be slain. It is the sword for the great slaughter, which surrounds them,
Ezekiel	21:15	that their hearts may melt, and many stumble. At all their gates I have given the glittering sword. Ah, it is made like lightning; it is taken up for slaughter.
Ezekiel	21:16	Cut sharply to the right; set yourself to the left, wherever your face is directed.
Ezekiel	21:17	I also will clap my hands, and I will satisfy my fury; I the LORD have spoken."
Ezekiel	21:18	The word of the LORD came to me again:
Ezekiel	21:19	"As for you, son of man, mark two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come. Both of them shall come from the same land. And make a signpost; make it at the head of the way to a city.
Ezekiel	21:20	Mark a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the Ammonites and to Judah, into Jerusalem the fortified.
Ezekiel	21:21	For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination. He shakes the arrows; he consults the teraphim; he looks at the liver.
Ezekiel	21:22	Into his right hand comes the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth with murder, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build siege towers.
Ezekiel	21:23	But to them it will seem like a false divination. They have sworn solemn oaths, but he brings their guilt to remembrance, that they may be taken.
Ezekiel	21:24	"Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have made your guilt to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your deeds your sins appear--because you have come to remembrance, you shall be taken in hand.
Ezekiel	21:25	And you, O profane wicked one, prince of Israel, whose day has come, the time of your final punishment,
Ezekiel	21:26	thus says the Lord GOD: Remove the turban and take off the crown. Things shall not remain as they are. Exalt that which is low, and bring low that which is exalted.
Ezekiel	21:27	A ruin, ruin, ruin I will make it. This also shall not be, until he comes, the one to whom judgment belongs, and I will give it to him.
Ezekiel	21:28	"And you, son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites and concerning their reproach; say, A sword, a sword is drawn for the slaughter. It is polished to consume and to flash like lightning--
Ezekiel	21:29	while they see for you false visions, while they divine lies for you--to place you on the necks of the profane wicked, whose day has come, the time of their final punishment.
Ezekiel	21:30	Return it to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you.
Ezekiel	21:31	And I will pour out my indignation upon you; I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and I will deliver you into the hands of brutish men, skillful to destroy.
Ezekiel	21:32	You shall be fuel for the fire. Your blood shall be in the midst of the land. You shall be no more remembered, for I the LORD have spoken."
Ezekiel	22:1	And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Ezekiel	22:2	"And you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Then declare to her all her abominations.
Ezekiel	22:3	You shall say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A city that sheds blood in her midst, so that her time may come, and that makes idols to defile herself!
Ezekiel	22:4	You have become guilty by the blood that you have shed, and defiled by the idols that you have made, and you have brought your days near, the appointed time of your years has come. Therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations, and a mockery to all the countries.
Ezekiel	22:5	Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you; your name is defiled; you are full of tumult.
Ezekiel	22:6	"Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding blood.
Ezekiel	22:7	Father and mother are treated with contempt in you; the sojourner suffers extortion in your midst; the fatherless and the widow are wronged in you.
Ezekiel	22:8	You have despised my holy things and profaned my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel	22:9	There are men in you who slander to shed blood, and people in you who eat on the mountains; they commit lewdness in your midst.
Ezekiel	22:10	In you men uncover their fathers' nakedness; in you they violate women who are unclean in their menstrual impurity.
Ezekiel	22:11	One commits abomination with his neighbor's wife; another lewdly defiles his daughter-in-law; another in you violates his sister, his father's daughter.
Ezekiel	22:12	In you they take bribes to shed blood; you take interest and profit and make gain of your neighbors by extortion; but me you have forgotten, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	22:13	"Behold, I strike my hand at the dishonest gain that you have made, and at the blood that has been in your midst.
Ezekiel	22:14	Can your courage endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with you? I the LORD have spoken, and I will do it.
Ezekiel	22:15	I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you through the countries, and I will consume your uncleanness out of you.
Ezekiel	22:16	And you shall be profaned by your own doing in the sight of the nations, and you shall know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	22:17	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	22:18	"Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me; all of them are bronze and tin and iron and lead in the furnace; they are dross of silver.
Ezekiel	22:19	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have all become dross, therefore, behold, I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.
Ezekiel	22:20	As one gathers silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into a furnace, to blow the fire on it in order to melt it, so I will gather you in my anger and in my wrath, and I will put you in and melt you.
Ezekiel	22:21	I will gather you and blow on you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it.
Ezekiel	22:22	As silver is melted in a furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am the LORD; I have poured out my wrath upon you."
Ezekiel	22:23	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	22:24	"Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed or rained upon in the day of indignation.
Ezekiel	22:25	The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring lion tearing the prey; they have devoured human lives; they have taken treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in her midst.
Ezekiel	22:26	Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things. They have made no distinction between the holy and the common, neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have disregarded my Sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them.
Ezekiel	22:27	Her princes in her midst are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain.
Ezekiel	22:28	And her prophets have smeared whitewash for them, seeing false visions and divining lies for them, saying, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' when the LORD has not spoken.
Ezekiel	22:29	The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have oppressed the poor and needy, and have extorted from the sojourner without justice.
Ezekiel	22:30	And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none.
Ezekiel	22:31	Therefore I have poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. I have returned their way upon their heads, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	23:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	23:2	"Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother.
Ezekiel	23:3	They played the whore in Egypt; they played the whore in their youth; there their breasts were pressed and their virgin bosoms handled.
Ezekiel	23:4	Oholah was the name of the elder and Oholibah the name of her sister. They became mine, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Oholah is Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem.
Ezekiel	23:5	"Oholah played the whore while she was mine, and she lusted after her lovers the Assyrians, warriors
Ezekiel	23:6	clothed in purple, governors and commanders, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on horses.
Ezekiel	23:7	She bestowed her whoring upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them, and she defiled herself with all the idols of everyone after whom she lusted.
Ezekiel	23:8	She did not give up her whoring that she had begun in Egypt; for in her youth men had lain with her and handled her virgin bosom and poured out their whoring lust upon her.
Ezekiel	23:9	Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, after whom she lusted.
Ezekiel	23:10	These uncovered her nakedness; they seized her sons and her daughters; and as for her, they killed her with the sword; and she became a byword among women, when judgment had been executed on her.
Ezekiel	23:11	"Her sister Oholibah saw this, and she became more corrupt than her sister in her lust and in her whoring, which was worse than that of her sister.
Ezekiel	23:12	She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and commanders, warriors clothed in full armor, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.
Ezekiel	23:13	And I saw that she was defiled; they both took the same way.
Ezekiel	23:14	But she carried her whoring further. She saw men portrayed on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans portrayed in vermilion,
Ezekiel	23:15	wearing belts on their waists, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them having the appearance of officers, a likeness of Babylonians whose native land was Chaldea.
Ezekiel	23:16	When she saw them, she lusted after them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea.
Ezekiel	23:17	And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoring lust. And after she was defiled by them, she turned from them in disgust.
Ezekiel	23:18	When she carried on her whoring so openly and flaunted her nakedness, I turned in disgust from her, as I had turned in disgust from her sister.
Ezekiel	23:19	Yet she increased her whoring, remembering the days of her youth, when she played the whore in the land of Egypt
Ezekiel	23:20	and lusted after her paramours there, whose members were like those of donkeys, and whose issue was like that of horses.
Ezekiel	23:21	Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom and pressed your young breasts."
Ezekiel	23:22	Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will stir up against you your lovers from whom you turned in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every side:
Ezekiel	23:23	the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them, desirable young men, governors and commanders all of them, officers and men of renown, all of them riding on horses.
Ezekiel	23:24	And they shall come against you from the north with chariots and wagons and a host of peoples. They shall set themselves against you on every side with buckler, shield, and helmet; and I will commit the judgment to them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments.
Ezekiel	23:25	And I will direct my jealousy against you, that they may deal with you in fury. They shall cut off your nose and your ears, and your survivors shall fall by the sword. They shall seize your sons and your daughters, and your survivors shall be devoured by fire.
Ezekiel	23:26	They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels.
Ezekiel	23:27	Thus I will put an end to your lewdness and your whoring begun in the land of Egypt, so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt anymore.
Ezekiel	23:28	"For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into the hands of those from whom you turned in disgust,
Ezekiel	23:29	and they shall deal with you in hatred and take away all the fruit of your labor and leave you naked and bare, and the nakedness of your whoring shall be uncovered. Your lewdness and your whoring
Ezekiel	23:30	have brought this upon you, because you played the whore with the nations and defiled yourself with their idols.
Ezekiel	23:31	You have gone the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.
Ezekiel	23:32	Thus says the Lord GOD: "You shall drink your sister's cup that is deep and large; you shall be laughed at and held in derision, for it contains much;
Ezekiel	23:33	you will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow. A cup of horror and desolation, the cup of your sister Samaria;
Ezekiel	23:34	you shall drink it and drain it out, and gnaw its shards, and tear your breasts;for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	23:35	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, you yourself must bear the consequences of your lewdness and whoring."
Ezekiel	23:36	The LORD said to me: "Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Declare to them their abominations.
Ezekiel	23:37	For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. With their idols they have committed adultery, and they have even offered up to them for food the children whom they had borne to me.
Ezekiel	23:38	Moreover, this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day and profaned my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel	23:39	For when they had slaughtered their children in sacrifice to their idols, on the same day they came into my sanctuary to profane it. And behold, this is what they did in my house.
Ezekiel	23:40	They even sent for men to come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent; and behold, they came. For them you bathed yourself, painted your eyes, and adorned yourself with ornaments.
Ezekiel	23:41	You sat on a stately couch, with a table spread before it on which you had placed my incense and my oil.
Ezekiel	23:42	The sound of a carefree multitude was with her; and with men of the common sort drunkards were brought from the wilderness; and they put bracelets on the hands of the women, and beautiful crowns on their heads.
Ezekiel	23:43	"Then I said of her who was worn out by adultery, Now they will continue to use her for a whore, even her!
Ezekiel	23:44	For they have gone in to her, as men go in to a prostitute. Thus they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, lewd women!
Ezekiel	23:45	But righteous men shall pass judgment on them with the sentence of adulteresses, and with the sentence of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands."
Ezekiel	23:46	For thus says the Lord GOD: "Bring up a vast host against them, and make them an object of terror and a plunder.
Ezekiel	23:47	And the host shall stone them and cut them down with their swords. They shall kill their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses.
Ezekiel	23:48	Thus will I put an end to lewdness in the land, that all women may take warning and not commit lewdness as you have done.
Ezekiel	23:49	And they shall return your lewdness upon you, and you shall bear the penalty for your sinful idolatry, and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	24:1	In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	24:2	"Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day.
Ezekiel	24:3	And utter a parable to the rebellious house and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Set on the pot, set it on; pour in water also;
Ezekiel	24:4	put in it the pieces of meat, all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with choice bones.
Ezekiel	24:5	Take the choicest one of the flock; pile the logs under it; boil it well; seethe also its bones in it.
Ezekiel	24:6	"Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose corrosion is in it, and whose corrosion has not gone out of it! Take out of it piece after piece, without making any choice.
Ezekiel	24:7	For the blood she has shed is in her midst; she put it on the bare rock; she did not pour it out on the ground to cover it with dust.
Ezekiel	24:8	To rouse my wrath, to take vengeance, I have set on the bare rock the blood she has shed, that it may not be covered.
Ezekiel	24:9	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great.
Ezekiel	24:10	Heap on the logs, kindle the fire, boil the meat well, mix in the spices, and let the bones be burned up.
Ezekiel	24:11	Then set it empty upon the coals, that it may become hot, and its copper may burn, that its uncleanness may be melted in it, its corrosion consumed.
Ezekiel	24:12	She has wearied herself with toil; its abundant corrosion does not go out of it. Into the fire with its corrosion!
Ezekiel	24:13	On account of your unclean lewdness, because I would have cleansed you and you were not cleansed from your uncleanness, you shall not be cleansed anymore till I have satisfied my fury upon you.
Ezekiel	24:14	I am the LORD. I have spoken; it shall come to pass; I will do it. I will not go back; I will not spare; I will not relent; according to your ways and your deeds you will be judged, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	24:15	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	24:16	"Son of man, behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke; yet you shall not mourn or weep, nor shall your tears run down.
Ezekiel	24:17	Sigh, but not aloud; make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your turban, and put your shoes on your feet; do not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men."
Ezekiel	24:18	So I spoke to the people in the morning, and at evening my wife died. And on the next morning I did as I was commanded.
Ezekiel	24:19	And the people said to me, "Will you not tell us what these things mean for us, that you are acting thus?"
Ezekiel	24:20	Then I said to them, "The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	24:21	'Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the delight of your eyes, and the yearning of your soul, and your sons and your daughters whom you left behind shall fall by the sword.
Ezekiel	24:22	And you shall do as I have done; you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.
Ezekiel	24:23	Your turbans shall be on your heads and your shoes on your feet; you shall not mourn or weep, but you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan to one another.
Ezekiel	24:24	Thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign; according to all that he has done you shall do. When this comes, then you will know that I am the Lord GOD.'
Ezekiel	24:25	"As for you, son of man, surely on the day when I take from them their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes and their soul's desire, and also their sons and daughters,
Ezekiel	24:26	on that day a fugitive will come to you to report to you the news.
Ezekiel	24:27	On that day your mouth will be opened to the fugitive, and you shall speak and be no longer mute. So you will be a sign to them, and they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	25:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	25:2	"Son of man, set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them.
Ezekiel	25:3	Say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Because you said, 'Aha!' over my sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and over the house of Judah when they went into exile,
Ezekiel	25:4	therefore behold, I am handing you over to the people of the East for a possession, and they shall set their encampments among you and make their dwellings in your midst. They shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk.
Ezekiel	25:5	I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels and Ammon a fold for flocks. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	25:6	For thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and rejoiced with all the malice within your soul against the land of Israel,
Ezekiel	25:7	therefore, behold, I have stretched out my hand against you, and will hand you over as plunder to the nations. And I will cut you off from the peoples and will make you perish out of the countries; I will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	25:8	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Because Moab and Seir said, 'Behold, the house of Judah is like all the other nations,'
Ezekiel	25:9	therefore I will lay open the flank of Moab from the cities, from its cities on its frontier, the glory of the country, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim.
Ezekiel	25:10	I will give it along with the Ammonites to the people of the East as a possession, that the Ammonites may be remembered no more among the nations,
Ezekiel	25:11	and I will execute judgments upon Moab. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	25:12	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Because Edom acted revengefully against the house of Judah and has grievously offended in taking vengeance on them,
Ezekiel	25:13	therefore thus says the Lord GOD, I will stretch out my hand against Edom and cut off from it man and beast. And I will make it desolate; from Teman even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword.
Ezekiel	25:14	And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath, and they shall know my vengeance, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	25:15	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Because the Philistines acted revengefully and took vengeance with malice of soul to destroy in never-ending enmity,
Ezekiel	25:16	therefore thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I will stretch out my hand against the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites and destroy the rest of the seacoast.
Ezekiel	25:17	I will execute great vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes. Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I lay my vengeance upon them."
Ezekiel	26:1	In the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	26:2	"Son of man, because Tyre said concerning Jerusalem, 'Aha, the gate of the peoples is broken; it has swung open to me. I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,'
Ezekiel	26:3	therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will bring up many nations against you, as the sea brings up its waves.
Ezekiel	26:4	They shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers, and I will scrape her soil from her and make her a bare rock.
Ezekiel	26:5	She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for the spreading of nets, for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD. And she shall become plunder for the nations,
Ezekiel	26:6	and her daughters on the mainland shall be killed by the sword. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	26:7	"For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring against Tyre from the north Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, king of kings, with horses and chariots, and with horsemen and a host of many soldiers.
Ezekiel	26:8	He will kill with the sword your daughters on the mainland. He will set up a siege wall against you and throw up a mound against you, and raise a roof of shields against you.
Ezekiel	26:9	He will direct the shock of his battering rams against your walls, and with his axes he will break down your towers.
Ezekiel	26:10	His horses will be so many that their dust will cover you. Your walls will shake at the noise of the horsemen and wagons and chariots, when he enters your gates as men enter a city that has been breached.
Ezekiel	26:11	With the hoofs of his horses he will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword, and your mighty pillars will fall to the ground.
Ezekiel	26:12	They will plunder your riches and loot your merchandise. They will break down your walls and destroy your pleasant houses. Your stones and timber and soil they will cast into the midst of the waters.
Ezekiel	26:13	And I will stop the music of your songs, and the sound of your lyres shall be heard no more.
Ezekiel	26:14	I will make you a bare rock. You shall be a place for the spreading of nets. You shall never be rebuilt, for I am the LORD; I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	26:15	"Thus says the Lord GOD to Tyre: Will not the coastlands shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when slaughter is made in your midst?
Ezekiel	26:16	Then all the princes of the sea will step down from their thrones and remove their robes and strip off their embroidered garments. They will clothe themselves with trembling; they will sit on the ground and tremble every moment and be appalled at you.
Ezekiel	26:17	And they will raise a lamentation over you and say to you, "'How you have perished, you who were inhabited from the seas, O city renowned, who was mighty on the sea; she and her inhabitants imposed their terror on all her inhabitants!
Ezekiel	26:18	Now the coastlands tremble on the day of your fall, and the coastlands that are on the sea are dismayed at your passing.'
Ezekiel	26:19	"For thus says the Lord GOD: When I make you a city laid waste, like the cities that are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep over you, and the great waters cover you,
Ezekiel	26:20	then I will make you go down with those who go down to the pit, to the people of old, and I will make you to dwell in the world below, among ruins from of old, with those who go down to the pit, so that you will not be inhabited; but I will set beauty in the land of the living.
Ezekiel	26:21	I will bring you to a dreadful end, and you shall be no more. Though you be sought for, you will never be found again, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	27:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	27:2	"Now you, son of man, raise a lamentation over Tyre,
Ezekiel	27:3	and say to Tyre, who dwells at the entrances to the sea, merchant of the peoples to many coastlands, thus says the Lord GOD: "O Tyre, you have said, 'I am perfect in beauty.'
Ezekiel	27:4	Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders made perfect your beauty.
Ezekiel	27:5	They made all your planks of fir trees from Senir; they took a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you.
Ezekiel	27:6	Of oaks of Bashan they made your oars; they made your deck of pines from the coasts of Cyprus, inlaid with ivory.
Ezekiel	27:7	Of fine embroidered linen from Egypt was your sail, serving as your banner; blue and purple from the coasts of Elishah was your awning.
Ezekiel	27:8	The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers; your skilled men, O Tyre, were in you; they were your pilots.
Ezekiel	27:9	The elders of Gebal and her skilled men were in you, caulking your seams; all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to barter for your wares.
Ezekiel	27:10	"Persia and Lud and Put were in your army as your men of war. They hung the shield and helmet in you; they gave you splendor.
Ezekiel	27:11	Men of Arvad and Helech were on your walls all around, and men of Gamad were in your towers. They hung their shields on your walls all around; they made perfect your beauty.
Ezekiel	27:12	"Tarshish did business with you because of your great wealth of every kind; silver, iron, tin, and lead they exchanged for your wares.
Ezekiel	27:13	Javan, Tubal, and Meshech traded with you; they exchanged human beings and vessels of bronze for your merchandise.
Ezekiel	27:14	From Beth-togarmah they exchanged horses, war horses, and mules for your wares.
Ezekiel	27:15	The men of Dedan traded with you. Many coastlands were your own special markets; they brought you in payment ivory tusks and ebony.
Ezekiel	27:16	Syria did business with you because of your abundant goods; they exchanged for your wares emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and ruby.
Ezekiel	27:17	Judah and the land of Israel traded with you; they exchanged for your merchandise wheat of Minnith, meal, honey, oil, and balm.
Ezekiel	27:18	Damascus did business with you for your abundant goods, because of your great wealth of every kind; wine of Helbon and wool of Sahar
Ezekiel	27:19	and casks of wine from Uzal they exchanged for your wares; wrought iron, cassia, and calamus were bartered for your merchandise.
Ezekiel	27:20	Dedan traded with you in saddlecloths for riding.
Ezekiel	27:21	Arabia and all the princes of Kedar were your favored dealers in lambs, rams, and goats; in these they did business with you.
Ezekiel	27:22	The traders of Sheba and Raamah traded with you; they exchanged for your wares the best of all kinds of spices and all precious stones and gold.
Ezekiel	27:23	Haran, Canneh, Eden, traders of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad traded with you.
Ezekiel	27:24	In your market these traded with you in choice garments, in clothes of blue and embroidered work, and in carpets of colored material, bound with cords and made secure.
Ezekiel	27:25	The ships of Tarshish traveled for you with your merchandise. So you were filled and heavily laden in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel	27:26	"Your rowers have brought you out into the high seas. The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel	27:27	Your riches, your wares, your merchandise, your mariners and your pilots, your caulkers, your dealers in merchandise, and all your men of war who are in you, with all your crew that is in your midst, sink into the heart of the seas on the day of your fall.
Ezekiel	27:28	At the sound of the cry of your pilots the countryside shakes,
Ezekiel	27:29	and down from their ships come all who handle the oar. The mariners and all the pilots of the sea stand on the land
Ezekiel	27:30	and shout aloud over you and cry out bitterly. They cast dust on their heads and wallow in ashes;
Ezekiel	27:31	they make themselves bald for you and put sackcloth on their waist, and they weep over you in bitterness of soul, with bitter mourning.
Ezekiel	27:32	In their wailing they raise a lamentation for you and lament over you: 'Who is like Tyre, like one destroyed in the midst of the sea?
Ezekiel	27:33	When your wares came from the seas, you satisfied many peoples; with your abundant wealth and merchandise you enriched the kings of the earth.
Ezekiel	27:34	Now you are wrecked by the seas, in the depths of the waters; your merchandise and all your crew in your midst have sunk with you.
Ezekiel	27:35	All the inhabitants of the coastlands are appalled at you, and the hair of their kings bristles with horror; their faces are convulsed.
Ezekiel	27:36	The merchants among the peoples hiss at you; you have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever.'"
Ezekiel	28:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	28:2	"Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Because your heart is proud, and you have said, 'I am a god, I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas,' yet you are but a man, and no god, though you make your heart like the heart of a god--
Ezekiel	28:3	you are indeed wiser than Daniel; no secret is hidden from you;
Ezekiel	28:4	by your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries;
Ezekiel	28:5	by your great wisdom in your trade you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud in your wealth--
Ezekiel	28:6	therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you make your heart like the heart of a god,
Ezekiel	28:7	therefore, behold, I will bring foreigners upon you, the most ruthless of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom and defile your splendor.
Ezekiel	28:8	They shall thrust you down into the pit, and you shall die the death of the slain in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel	28:9	Will you still say, 'I am a god,' in the presence of those who kill you, though you are but a man, and no god, in the hands of those who slay you?
Ezekiel	28:10	You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of foreigners; for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	28:11	Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	28:12	"Son of man, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord GOD: "You were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.
Ezekiel	28:13	You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, sardius, topaz, and diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbuncle; and crafted in gold were your settings and your engravings. On the day that you were created they were prepared.
Ezekiel	28:14	You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you; you were on the holy mountain of God; in the midst of the stones of fire you walked.
Ezekiel	28:15	You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in you.
Ezekiel	28:16	In the abundance of your trade you were filled with violence in your midst, and you sinned; so I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you, O guardian cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
Ezekiel	28:17	Your heart was proud because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground; I exposed you before kings, to feast their eyes on you.
Ezekiel	28:18	By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your trade you profaned your sanctuaries; so I brought fire out from your midst; it consumed you, and I turned you to ashes on the earth in the sight of all who saw you.
Ezekiel	28:19	All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you; you have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever."
Ezekiel	28:20	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	28:21	"Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against her
Ezekiel	28:22	and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will manifest my glory in your midst. And they shall know that I am the LORD when I execute judgments in her and manifest my holiness in her;
Ezekiel	28:23	for I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the slain shall fall in her midst, by the sword that is against her on every side. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	28:24	"And for the house of Israel there shall be no more a brier to prick or a thorn to hurt them among all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	28:25	"Thus says the Lord GOD: When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall dwell in their own land that I gave to my servant Jacob.
Ezekiel	28:26	And they shall dwell securely in it, and they shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall dwell securely, when I execute judgments upon all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the LORD their God."
Ezekiel	29:1	In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	29:2	"Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt;
Ezekiel	29:3	speak, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon that lies in the midst of his streams, that says, 'My Nile is my own; I made it for myself.'
Ezekiel	29:4	I will put hooks in your jaws, and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales; and I will draw you up out of the midst of your streams, with all the fish of your streams that stick to your scales.
Ezekiel	29:5	And I will cast you out into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your streams; you shall fall on the open field, and not be brought together or gathered. To the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens I give you as food.
Ezekiel	29:6	Then all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD."Because you have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel;
Ezekiel	29:7	when they grasped you with the hand, you broke and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned on you, you broke and made all their loins to shake.
Ezekiel	29:8	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you, and will cut off from you man and beast,
Ezekiel	29:9	and the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste. Then they will know that I am the LORD."Because you said, 'The Nile is mine, and I made it,'
Ezekiel	29:10	therefore, behold, I am against you and against your streams, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from Migdol to Syene, as far as the border of Cush.
Ezekiel	29:11	No foot of man shall pass through it, and no foot of beast shall pass through it; it shall be uninhabited forty years.
Ezekiel	29:12	And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of desolated countries, and her cities shall be a desolation forty years among cities that are laid waste. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries.
Ezekiel	29:13	"For thus says the Lord GOD: At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered,
Ezekiel	29:14	and I will restore the fortunes of Egypt and bring them back to the land of Pathros, the land of their origin, and there they shall be a lowly kingdom.
Ezekiel	29:15	It shall be the most lowly of the kingdoms, and never again exalt itself above the nations. And I will make them so small that they will never again rule over the nations.
Ezekiel	29:16	And it shall never again be the reliance of the house of Israel, recalling their iniquity, when they turn to them for aid. Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	29:17	In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	29:18	"Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his army labor hard against Tyre. Every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare, yet neither he nor his army got anything from Tyre to pay for the labor that he had performed against her.
Ezekiel	29:19	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and he shall carry off its wealth and despoil it and plunder it; and it shall be the wages for his army.
Ezekiel	29:20	I have given him the land of Egypt as his payment for which he labored, because they worked for me, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	29:21	"On that day I will cause a horn to spring up for the house of Israel, and I will open your lips among them. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	30:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	30:2	"Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: "Wail, 'Alas for the day!'
Ezekiel	30:3	For the day is near, the day of the LORD is near; it will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for the nations.
Ezekiel	30:4	A sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Cush, when the slain fall in Egypt, and her wealth is carried away, and her foundations are torn down.
Ezekiel	30:5	Cush, and Put, and Lud, and all Arabia, and Libya, and the people of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword.
Ezekiel	30:6	"Thus says the LORD: Those who support Egypt shall fall, and her proud might shall come down; from Migdol to Syene they shall fall within her by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	30:7	And they shall be desolated in the midst of desolated countries, and their cities shall be in the midst of cities that are laid waste.
Ezekiel	30:8	Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have set fire to Egypt, and all her helpers are broken.
Ezekiel	30:9	"On that day messengers shall go out from me in ships to terrify the unsuspecting people of Cush, and anguish shall come upon them on the day of Egypt's doom; for, behold, it comes!
Ezekiel	30:10	"Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will put an end to the wealth of Egypt, by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
Ezekiel	30:11	He and his people with him, the most ruthless of nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land, and they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain.
Ezekiel	30:12	And I will dry up the Nile and will sell the land into the hand of evildoers; I will bring desolation upon the land and everything in it, by the hand of foreigners; I am the LORD; I have spoken.
Ezekiel	30:13	"Thus says the Lord GOD: "I will destroy the idols and put an end to the images in Memphis; there shall no longer be a prince from the land of Egypt; so I will put fear in the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel	30:14	I will make Pathros a desolation and will set fire to Zoan and will execute judgments on Thebes.
Ezekiel	30:15	And I will pour out my wrath on Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt, and cut off the multitude of Thebes.
Ezekiel	30:16	And I will set fire to Egypt; Pelusium shall be in great agony; Thebes shall be breached, and Memphis shall face enemies by day.
Ezekiel	30:17	The young men of On and of Pi-beseth shall fall by the sword, and the women shall go into captivity.
Ezekiel	30:18	At Tehaphnehes the day shall be dark, when I break there the yoke bars of Egypt, and her proud might shall come to an end in her; she shall be covered by a cloud, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
Ezekiel	30:19	Thus I will execute judgments on Egypt. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	30:20	In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	30:21	"Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and behold, it has not been bound up, to heal it by binding it with a bandage, so that it may become strong to wield the sword.
Ezekiel	30:22	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his arms, both the strong arm and the one that was broken, and I will make the sword fall from his hand.
Ezekiel	30:23	I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries.
Ezekiel	30:24	And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand, but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him like a man mortally wounded.
Ezekiel	30:25	I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. Then they shall know that I am the LORD, when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel	30:26	And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	31:1	In the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	31:2	"Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his multitude: "Whom are you like in your greatness?
Ezekiel	31:3	Behold, Assyria was a cedar in Lebanon, with beautiful branches and forest shade, and of towering height, its top among the clouds.
Ezekiel	31:4	The waters nourished it; the deep made it grow tall, making its rivers flow around the place of its planting, sending forth its streams to all the trees of the field.
Ezekiel	31:5	So it towered high above all the trees of the field; its boughs grew large and its branches long from abundant water in its shoots.
Ezekiel	31:6	All the birds of the heavens made their nests in its boughs; under its branches all the beasts of the field gave birth to their young, and under its shadow lived all great nations.
Ezekiel	31:7	It was beautiful in its greatness, in the length of its branches; for its roots went down to abundant waters.
Ezekiel	31:8	The cedars in the garden of God could not rival it, nor the fir trees equal its boughs; neither were the plane trees like its branches; no tree in the garden of God was its equal in beauty.
Ezekiel	31:9	I made it beautiful in the mass of its branches, and all the trees of Eden envied it, that were in the garden of God.
Ezekiel	31:10	"Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because it towered high and set its top among the clouds, and its heart was proud of its height,
Ezekiel	31:11	I will give it into the hand of a mighty one of the nations. He shall surely deal with it as its wickedness deserves. I have cast it out.
Ezekiel	31:12	Foreigners, the most ruthless of nations, have cut it down and left it. On the mountains and in all the valleys its branches have fallen, and its boughs have been broken in all the ravines of the land, and all the peoples of the earth have gone away from its shadow and left it.
Ezekiel	31:13	On its fallen trunk dwell all the birds of the heavens, and on its branches are all the beasts of the field.
Ezekiel	31:14	All this is in order that no trees by the waters may grow to towering height or set their tops among the clouds, and that no trees that drink water may reach up to them in height. For they are all given over to death, to the world below, among the children of man, with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel	31:15	"Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day the cedar went down to Sheol I caused mourning; I closed the deep over it, and restrained its rivers, and many waters were stopped. I clothed Lebanon in gloom for it, and all the trees of the field fainted because of it.
Ezekiel	31:16	I made the nations quake at the sound of its fall, when I cast it down to Sheol with those who go down to the pit. And all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, were comforted in the world below.
Ezekiel	31:17	They also went down to Sheol with it, to those who are slain by the sword; yes, those who were its arm, who lived under its shadow among the nations.
Ezekiel	31:18	"Whom are you thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? You shall be brought down with the trees of Eden to the world below. You shall lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword."This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	32:1	In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	32:2	"Son of man, raise a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him: "You consider yourself a lion of the nations, but you are like a dragon in the seas; you burst forth in your rivers, trouble the waters with your feet, and foul their rivers.
Ezekiel	32:3	Thus says the Lord GOD: I will throw my net over you with a host of many peoples, and they will haul you up in my dragnet.
Ezekiel	32:4	And I will cast you on the ground; on the open field I will fling you, and will cause all the birds of the heavens to settle on you, and I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you.
Ezekiel	32:5	I will strew your flesh upon the mountains and fill the valleys with your carcass.
Ezekiel	32:6	I will drench the land even to the mountains with your flowing blood, and the ravines will be full of you.
Ezekiel	32:7	When I blot you out, I will cover the heavens and make their stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give its light.
Ezekiel	32:8	All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over you, and put darkness on your land, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	32:9	"I will trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries that you have not known.
Ezekiel	32:10	I will make many peoples appalled at you, and the hair of their kings shall bristle with horror because of you, when I brandish my sword before them. They shall tremble every moment, every one for his own life, on the day of your downfall.
Ezekiel	32:11	"For thus says the Lord GOD: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.
Ezekiel	32:12	I will cause your multitude to fall by the swords of mighty ones, all of them most ruthless of nations. "They shall bring to ruin the pride of Egypt, and all its multitude shall perish.
Ezekiel	32:13	I will destroy all its beasts from beside many waters; and no foot of man shall trouble them anymore, nor shall the hoofs of beasts trouble them.
Ezekiel	32:14	Then I will make their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	32:15	When I make the land of Egypt desolate, and when the land is desolate of all that fills it, when I strike down all who dwell in it, then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	32:16	This is a lamentation that shall be chanted; the daughters of the nations shall chant it; over Egypt, and over all her multitude, shall they chant it, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	32:17	In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	32:18	"Son of man, wail over the multitude of Egypt, and send them down, her and the daughters of majestic nations, to the world below, to those who have gone down to the pit:
Ezekiel	32:19	'Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down and be laid to rest with the uncircumcised.'
Ezekiel	32:20	They shall fall amid those who are slain by the sword. Egypt is delivered to the sword; drag her away, and all her multitudes.
Ezekiel	32:21	The mighty chiefs shall speak of them, with their helpers, out of the midst of Sheol: 'They have come down, they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.'
Ezekiel	32:22	"Assyria is there, and all her company, its graves all around it, all of them slain, fallen by the sword,
Ezekiel	32:23	whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit; and her company is all around her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who spread terror in the land of the living.
Ezekiel	32:24	"Elam is there, and all her multitude around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who went down uncircumcised into the world below, who spread their terror in the land of the living; and they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel	32:25	They have made her a bed among the slain with all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for terror of them was spread in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit; they are placed among the slain.
Ezekiel	32:26	"Meshech-Tubal is there, and all her multitude, her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for they spread their terror in the land of the living.
Ezekiel	32:27	And they do not lie with the mighty, the fallen from among the uncircumcised, who went down to Sheol with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid under their heads, and whose iniquities are upon their bones; for the terror of the mighty men was in the land of the living.
Ezekiel	32:28	But as for you, you shall be broken and lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword.
Ezekiel	32:29	"Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who are killed by the sword; they lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel	32:30	"The princes of the north are there, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who have gone down in shame with the slain, for all the terror that they caused by their might; they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel	32:31	"When Pharaoh sees them, he will be comforted for all his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	32:32	For I spread terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid to rest among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	33:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	33:2	"Son of man, speak to your people and say to them, If I bring the sword upon a land, and the people of the land take a man from among them, and make him their watchman,
Ezekiel	33:3	and if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people,
Ezekiel	33:4	then if anyone who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.
Ezekiel	33:5	He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning; his blood shall be upon himself. But if he had taken warning, he would have saved his life.
Ezekiel	33:6	But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, so that the people are not warned, and the sword comes and takes any one of them, that person is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand.
Ezekiel	33:7	"So you, son of man, I have made a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
Ezekiel	33:8	If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked person shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel	33:9	But if you warn the wicked to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way, that person shall die in his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul.
Ezekiel	33:10	"And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, Thus have you said: 'Surely our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we rot away because of them. How then can we live?'
Ezekiel	33:11	Say to them, As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live; turn back, turn back from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of Israel?
Ezekiel	33:12	"And you, son of man, say to your people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him when he transgresses, and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it when he turns from his wickedness, and the righteous shall not be able to live by his righteousness when he sins.
Ezekiel	33:13	Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he trusts in his righteousness and does injustice, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done he shall die.
Ezekiel	33:14	Again, though I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' yet if he turns from his sin and does what is just and right,
Ezekiel	33:15	if the wicked restores the pledge, gives back what he has taken by robbery, and walks in the statutes of life, not doing injustice, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel	33:16	None of the sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him. He has done what is just and right; he shall surely live.
Ezekiel	33:17	"Yet your people say, 'The way of the Lord is not just,' when it is their own way that is not just.
Ezekiel	33:18	When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it.
Ezekiel	33:19	And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live by them.
Ezekiel	33:20	Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways."
Ezekiel	33:21	In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a fugitive from Jerusalem came to me and said, "The city has been struck down."
Ezekiel	33:22	Now the hand of the LORD had been upon me the evening before the fugitive came; and he had opened my mouth by the time the man came to me in the morning, so my mouth was opened, and I was no longer mute.
Ezekiel	33:23	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	33:24	"Son of man, the inhabitants of these waste places in the land of Israel keep saying, 'Abraham was only one man, yet he got possession of the land; but we are many; the land is surely given us to possess.'
Ezekiel	33:25	Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: You eat flesh with the blood and lift up your eyes to your idols and shed blood; shall you then possess the land?
Ezekiel	33:26	You rely on the sword, you commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife; shall you then possess the land?
Ezekiel	33:27	Say this to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword, and whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence.
Ezekiel	33:28	And I will make the land a desolation and a waste, and her proud might shall come to an end, and the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through.
Ezekiel	33:29	Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste because of all their abominations that they have committed.
Ezekiel	33:30	"As for you, son of man, your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses, say to one another, each to his brother, 'Come, and hear what the word is that comes from the LORD.'
Ezekiel	33:31	And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say but they will not do it; for with lustful talk in their mouths they act; their heart is set on their gain.
Ezekiel	33:32	And behold, you are to them like one who sings lustful songs with a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument, for they hear what you say, but they will not do it.
Ezekiel	33:33	When this comes--and come it will!--then they will know that a prophet has been among them."
Ezekiel	34:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	34:2	"Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord GOD: Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not shepherds feed the sheep?
Ezekiel	34:3	You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep.
Ezekiel	34:4	The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them.
Ezekiel	34:5	So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts.
Ezekiel	34:6	My sheep were scattered; they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them.
Ezekiel	34:7	"Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel	34:8	As I live, declares the Lord GOD, surely because my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep,
Ezekiel	34:9	therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel	34:10	Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep at their hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them.
Ezekiel	34:11	"For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out.
Ezekiel	34:12	As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness.
Ezekiel	34:13	And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
Ezekiel	34:14	I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel	34:15	I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	34:16	I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak, and the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them in justice.
Ezekiel	34:17	"As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between rams and male goats.
Ezekiel	34:18	Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet?
Ezekiel	34:19	And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with your feet?
Ezekiel	34:20	"Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
Ezekiel	34:21	Because you push with side and shoulder, and thrust at all the weak with your horns, till you have scattered them abroad,
Ezekiel	34:22	I will rescue my flock; they shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep.
Ezekiel	34:23	And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed them and be their shepherd.
Ezekiel	34:24	And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the LORD; I have spoken.
Ezekiel	34:25	"I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods.
Ezekiel	34:26	And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing, and I will send down the showers in their season; they shall be showers of blessing.
Ezekiel	34:27	And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them.
Ezekiel	34:28	They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid.
Ezekiel	34:29	And I will provide for them renowned plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations.
Ezekiel	34:30	And they shall know that I am the LORD their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	34:31	And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	35:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	35:2	"Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
Ezekiel	35:3	and say to it, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you a desolation and a waste.
Ezekiel	35:4	I will lay your cities waste, and you shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	35:5	Because you cherished perpetual enmity and gave over the people of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment,
Ezekiel	35:6	therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you; because you did not hate bloodshed, therefore blood shall pursue you.
Ezekiel	35:7	I will make Mount Seir a waste and a desolation, and I will cut off from it all who come and go.
Ezekiel	35:8	And I will fill its mountains with the slain. On your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines those slain with the sword shall fall.
Ezekiel	35:9	I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	35:10	"Because you said, 'These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will take possession of them'--although the LORD was there--
Ezekiel	35:11	therefore, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy that you showed because of your hatred against them. And I will make myself known among them, when I judge you.
Ezekiel	35:12	And you shall know that I am the LORD."I have heard all the revilings that you uttered against the mountains of Israel, saying, 'They are laid desolate; they are given us to devour.'
Ezekiel	35:13	And you magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and multiplied your words against me; I heard it.
Ezekiel	35:14	Thus says the Lord GOD: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate.
Ezekiel	35:15	As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so I will deal with you; you shall be desolate, Mount Seir, and all Edom, all of it. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	36:1	"And you, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD.
Ezekiel	36:2	Thus says the Lord GOD: Because the enemy said of you, 'Aha!' and, 'The ancient heights have become our possession,'
Ezekiel	36:3	therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Precisely because they made you desolate and crushed you from all sides, so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations, and you became the talk and evil gossip of the people,
Ezekiel	36:4	therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains and the hills, the ravines and the valleys, the desolate wastes and the deserted cities, which have become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations all around,
Ezekiel	36:5	therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Surely I have spoken in my hot jealousy against the rest of the nations and against all Edom, who gave my land to themselves as a possession with wholehearted joy and utter contempt, that they might make its pasturelands a prey.
Ezekiel	36:6	Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I have spoken in my jealous wrath, because you have suffered the reproach of the nations.
Ezekiel	36:7	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I swear that the nations that are all around you shall themselves suffer reproach.
Ezekiel	36:8	"But you, O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit to my people Israel, for they will soon come home.
Ezekiel	36:9	For behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown.
Ezekiel	36:10	And I will multiply people on you, the whole house of Israel, all of it. The cities shall be inhabited and the waste places rebuilt.
Ezekiel	36:11	And I will multiply on you man and beast, and they shall multiply and be fruitful. And I will cause you to be inhabited as in your former times, and will do more good to you than ever before. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	36:12	I will let people walk on you, even my people Israel. And they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no longer bereave them of children.
Ezekiel	36:13	Thus says the Lord GOD: Because they say to you, 'You devour people, and you bereave your nation of children,'
Ezekiel	36:14	therefore you shall no longer devour people and no longer bereave your nation of children, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	36:15	And I will not let you hear anymore the reproach of the nations, and you shall no longer bear the disgrace of the peoples and no longer cause your nation to stumble, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	36:16	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	36:17	"Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity.
Ezekiel	36:18	So I poured out my wrath upon them for the blood that they had shed in the land, for the idols with which they had defiled it.
Ezekiel	36:19	I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries. In accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them.
Ezekiel	36:20	But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that people said of them, 'These are the people of the LORD, and yet they had to go out of his land.'
Ezekiel	36:21	But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came.
Ezekiel	36:22	"Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came.
Ezekiel	36:23	And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the LORD, declares the Lord GOD, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Ezekiel	36:24	I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land.
Ezekiel	36:25	I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you.
Ezekiel	36:26	And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.
Ezekiel	36:27	And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.
Ezekiel	36:28	You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
Ezekiel	36:29	And I will deliver you from all your uncleannesses. And I will summon the grain and make it abundant and lay no famine upon you.
Ezekiel	36:30	I will make the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations.
Ezekiel	36:31	Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations.
Ezekiel	36:32	It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord GOD; let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel.
Ezekiel	36:33	"Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt.
Ezekiel	36:34	And the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all who passed by.
Ezekiel	36:35	And they will say, 'This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited.'
Ezekiel	36:36	Then the nations that are left all around you shall know that I am the LORD; I have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted that which was desolate. I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it.
Ezekiel	36:37	"Thus says the Lord GOD: This also I will let the house of Israel ask me to do for them: to increase their people like a flock.
Ezekiel	36:38	Like the flock for sacrifices, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of people. Then they will know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	37:1	The hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the LORD and set me down in the middle of the valley; it was full of bones.
Ezekiel	37:2	And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry.
Ezekiel	37:3	And he said to me, "Son of man, can these bones live?" And I answered, "O Lord GOD, you know."
Ezekiel	37:4	Then he said to me, "Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
Ezekiel	37:5	Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live.
Ezekiel	37:6	And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the LORD."
Ezekiel	37:7	So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
Ezekiel	37:8	And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them.
Ezekiel	37:9	Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the breath; prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live."
Ezekiel	37:10	So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army.
Ezekiel	37:11	Then he said to me, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, 'Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.'
Ezekiel	37:12	Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel.
Ezekiel	37:13	And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people.
Ezekiel	37:14	And I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the LORD."
Ezekiel	37:15	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	37:16	"Son of man, take a stick and write on it, 'For Judah, and the people of Israel associated with him'; then take another stick and write on it, 'For Joseph (the stick of Ephraim) and all the house of Israel associated with him.'
Ezekiel	37:17	And join them one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand.
Ezekiel	37:18	And when your people say to you, 'Will you not tell us what you mean by these?'
Ezekiel	37:19	say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am about to take the stick of Joseph (that is in the hand of Ephraim) and the tribes of Israel associated with him. And I will join with it the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, that they may be one in my hand.
Ezekiel	37:20	When the sticks on which you write are in your hand before their eyes,
Ezekiel	37:21	then say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the people of Israel from the nations among which they have gone, and will gather them from all around, and bring them to their own land.
Ezekiel	37:22	And I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel. And one king shall be king over them all, and they shall be no longer two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms.
Ezekiel	37:23	They shall not defile themselves anymore with their idols and their detestable things, or with any of their transgressions. But I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them; and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel	37:24	"My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statutes.
Ezekiel	37:25	They shall dwell in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob, where your fathers lived. They and their children and their children's children shall dwell there forever, and David my servant shall be their prince forever.
Ezekiel	37:26	I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will set them in their land and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore.
Ezekiel	37:27	My dwelling place shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Ezekiel	37:28	Then the nations will know that I am the LORD who sanctifies Israel, when my sanctuary is in their midst forevermore."
Ezekiel	38:1	The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel	38:2	"Son of man, set your face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him
Ezekiel	38:3	and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.
Ezekiel	38:4	And I will turn you about and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you out, and all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great host, all of them with buckler and shield, wielding swords.
Ezekiel	38:5	Persia, Cush, and Put are with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Ezekiel	38:6	Gomer and all his hordes; Beth-togarmah from the uttermost parts of the north with all his hordes--many peoples are with you.
Ezekiel	38:7	"Be ready and keep ready, you and all your hosts that are assembled about you, and be a guard for them.
Ezekiel	38:8	After many days you will be mustered. In the latter years you will go against the land that is restored from war, the land whose people were gathered from many peoples upon the mountains of Israel, which had been a continual waste. Its people were brought out from the peoples and now dwell securely, all of them.
Ezekiel	38:9	You will advance, coming on like a storm. You will be like a cloud covering the land, you and all your hordes, and many peoples with you.
Ezekiel	38:10	"Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day, thoughts will come into your mind, and you will devise an evil scheme
Ezekiel	38:11	and say, 'I will go up against the land of unwalled villages. I will fall upon the quiet people who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having no bars or gates,'
Ezekiel	38:12	to seize spoil and carry off plunder, to turn your hand against the waste places that are now inhabited, and the people who were gathered from the nations, who have acquired livestock and goods, who dwell at the center of the earth.
Ezekiel	38:13	Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish and all its leaders will say to you, 'Have you come to seize spoil? Have you assembled your hosts to carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to seize great spoil?'
Ezekiel	38:14	"Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day when my people Israel are dwelling securely, will you not know it?
Ezekiel	38:15	You will come from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great host, a mighty army.
Ezekiel	38:16	You will come up against my people Israel, like a cloud covering the land. In the latter days I will bring you against my land, that the nations may know me, when through you, O Gog, I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Ezekiel	38:17	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Are you he of whom I spoke in former days by my servants the prophets of Israel, who in those days prophesied for years that I would bring you against them?
Ezekiel	38:18	But on that day, the day that Gog shall come against the land of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, my wrath will be roused in my anger.
Ezekiel	38:19	For in my jealousy and in my blazing wrath I declare, On that day there shall be a great earthquake in the land of Israel.
Ezekiel	38:20	The fish of the sea and the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field and all creeping things that creep on the ground, and all the people who are on the face of the earth, shall quake at my presence. And the mountains shall be thrown down, and the cliffs shall fall, and every wall shall tumble to the ground.
Ezekiel	38:21	I will summon a sword against Gog on all my mountains, declares the Lord GOD. Every man's sword will be against his brother.
Ezekiel	38:22	With pestilence and bloodshed I will enter into judgment with him, and I will rain upon him and his hordes and the many peoples who are with him torrential rains and hailstones, fire and sulfur.
Ezekiel	38:23	So I will show my greatness and my holiness and make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	39:1	"And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.
Ezekiel	39:2	And I will turn you about and drive you forward, and bring you up from the uttermost parts of the north, and lead you against the mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel	39:3	Then I will strike your bow from your left hand, and will make your arrows drop out of your right hand.
Ezekiel	39:4	You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your hordes and the peoples who are with you. I will give you to birds of prey of every sort and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.
Ezekiel	39:5	You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	39:6	I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the coastlands, and they shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel	39:7	"And my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel, and I will not let my holy name be profaned anymore. And the nations shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.
Ezekiel	39:8	Behold, it is coming and it will be brought about, declares the Lord GOD. That is the day of which I have spoken.
Ezekiel	39:9	"Then those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out and make fires of the weapons and burn them, shields and bucklers, bow and arrows, clubs and spears; and they will make fires of them for seven years,
Ezekiel	39:10	so that they will not need to take wood out of the field or cut down any out of the forests, for they will make their fires of the weapons. They will seize the spoil of those who despoiled them, and plunder those who plundered them, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	39:11	"On that day I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the Valley of the Travelers, east of the sea. It will block the travelers, for there Gog and all his multitude will be buried. It will be called the Valley of Hamon-gog.
Ezekiel	39:12	For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them, in order to cleanse the land.
Ezekiel	39:13	All the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them renown on the day that I show my glory, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	39:14	They will set apart men to travel through the land regularly and bury those travelers remaining on the face of the land, so as to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make their search.
Ezekiel	39:15	And when these travel through the land and anyone sees a human bone, then he shall set up a sign by it, till the buriers have buried it in the Valley of Hamon-gog.
Ezekiel	39:16	(Hamonah is also the name of the city.) Thus shall they cleanse the land.
Ezekiel	39:17	"As for you, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: Speak to the birds of every sort and to all beasts of the field, 'Assemble and come, gather from all around to the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you, a great sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel, and you shall eat flesh and drink blood.
Ezekiel	39:18	You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth--of rams, of lambs, and of he-goats, of bulls, all of them fat beasts of Bashan.
Ezekiel	39:19	And you shall eat fat till you are filled, and drink blood till you are drunk, at the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you.
Ezekiel	39:20	And you shall be filled at my table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all kinds of warriors,' declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	39:21	"And I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid on them.
Ezekiel	39:22	The house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God, from that day forward.
Ezekiel	39:23	And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity, because they dealt so treacherously with me that I hid my face from them and gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword.
Ezekiel	39:24	I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions, and hid my face from them.
Ezekiel	39:25	"Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob and have mercy on the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for my holy name.
Ezekiel	39:26	They shall forget their shame and all the treachery they have practiced against me, when they dwell securely in their land with none to make them afraid,
Ezekiel	39:27	when I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them from their enemies' lands, and through them have vindicated my holiness in the sight of many nations.
Ezekiel	39:28	Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God, because I sent them into exile among the nations and then assembled them into their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations anymore.
Ezekiel	39:29	And I will not hide my face anymore from them, when I pour out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	40:1	In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that very day, the hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me to the city.
Ezekiel	40:2	In visions of God he brought me to the land of Israel, and set me down on a very high mountain, on which was a structure like a city to the south.
Ezekiel	40:3	When he brought me there, behold, there was a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen cord and a measuring reed in his hand. And he was standing in the gateway.
Ezekiel	40:4	And the man said to me, "Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart upon all that I shall show you, for you were brought here in order that I might show it to you. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel."
Ezekiel	40:5	And behold, there was a wall all around the outside of the temple area, and the length of the measuring reed in the man's hand was six long cubits, each being a cubit and a handbreadth in length. So he measured the thickness of the wall, one reed; and the height, one reed.
Ezekiel	40:6	Then he went into the gateway facing east, going up its steps, and measured the threshold of the gate, one reed deep.
Ezekiel	40:7	And the side rooms, one reed long and one reed broad; and the space between the side rooms, five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the vestibule of the gate at the inner end, one reed.
Ezekiel	40:8	Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, on the inside, one reed.
Ezekiel	40:9	Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, eight cubits; and its jambs, two cubits; and the vestibule of the gate was at the inner end.
Ezekiel	40:10	And there were three side rooms on either side of the east gate. The three were of the same size, and the jambs on either side were of the same size.
Ezekiel	40:11	Then he measured the width of the opening of the gateway, ten cubits; and the length of the gateway, thirteen cubits.
Ezekiel	40:12	There was a barrier before the side rooms, one cubit on either side. And the side rooms were six cubits on either side.
Ezekiel	40:13	Then he measured the gate from the ceiling of the one side room to the ceiling of the other, a breadth of twenty-five cubits; the openings faced each other.
Ezekiel	40:14	He measured also the vestibule, twenty cubits. And around the vestibule of the gateway was the court.
Ezekiel	40:15	From the front of the gate at the entrance to the front of the inner vestibule of the gate was fifty cubits.
Ezekiel	40:16	And the gateway had windows all around, narrowing inwards toward the side rooms and toward their jambs, and likewise the vestibule had windows all around inside, and on the jambs were palm trees.
Ezekiel	40:17	Then he brought me into the outer court. And behold, there were chambers and a pavement, all around the court. Thirty chambers faced the pavement.
Ezekiel	40:18	And the pavement ran along the side of the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates. This was the lower pavement.
Ezekiel	40:19	Then he measured the distance from the inner front of the lower gate to the outer front of the inner court, a hundred cubits on the east side and on the north side.
Ezekiel	40:20	As for the gate that faced toward the north, belonging to the outer court, he measured its length and its breadth.
Ezekiel	40:21	Its side rooms, three on either side, and its jambs and its vestibule were of the same size as those of the first gate. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel	40:22	And its windows, its vestibule, and its palm trees were of the same size as those of the gate that faced toward the east. And by seven steps people would go up to it, and find its vestibule before them.
Ezekiel	40:23	And opposite the gate on the north, as on the east, was a gate to the inner court. And he measured from gate to gate, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel	40:24	And he led me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate on the south. And he measured its jambs and its vestibule; they had the same size as the others.
Ezekiel	40:25	Both it and its vestibule had windows all around, like the windows of the others. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel	40:26	And there were seven steps leading up to it, and its vestibule was before them, and it had palm trees on its jambs, one on either side.
Ezekiel	40:27	And there was a gate on the south of the inner court. And he measured from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel	40:28	Then he brought me to the inner court through the south gate, and he measured the south gate. It was of the same size as the others.
Ezekiel	40:29	Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and both it and its vestibule had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel	40:30	And there were vestibules all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits broad.
Ezekiel	40:31	Its vestibule faced the outer court, and palm trees were on its jambs, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel	40:32	Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side, and he measured the gate. It was of the same size as the others.
Ezekiel	40:33	Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and both it and its vestibule had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel	40:34	Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel	40:35	Then he brought me to the north gate, and he measured it. It had the same size as the others.
Ezekiel	40:36	Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and it had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel	40:37	Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel	40:38	There was a chamber with its door in the vestibule of the gate, where the burnt offering was to be washed.
Ezekiel	40:39	And in the vestibule of the gate were two tables on either side, on which the burnt offering and the sin offering and the guilt offering were to be slaughtered.
Ezekiel	40:40	And off to the side, on the outside as one goes up to the entrance of the north gate, were two tables; and off to the other side of the vestibule of the gate were two tables.
Ezekiel	40:41	Four tables were on either side of the gate, eight tables, on which to slaughter.
Ezekiel	40:42	And there were four tables of hewn stone for the burnt offering, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high, on which the instruments were to be laid with which the burnt offerings and the sacrifices were slaughtered.
Ezekiel	40:43	And hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened all around within. And on the tables the flesh of the offering was to be laid.
Ezekiel	40:44	On the outside of the inner gateway there were two chambers in the inner court, one at the side of the north gate facing south, the other at the side of the south gate facing north.
Ezekiel	40:45	And he said to me, This chamber that faces south is for the priests who have charge of the temple,
Ezekiel	40:46	and the chamber that faces north is for the priests who have charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who alone among the sons of Levi may come near to the LORD to minister to him.
Ezekiel	40:47	And he measured the court, a hundred cubits long and a hundred cubits broad, a square. And the altar was in front of the temple.
Ezekiel	40:48	Then he brought me to the vestibule of the temple and measured the jambs of the vestibule, five cubits on either side. And the breadth of the gate was fourteen cubits, and the sidewalls of the gate were three cubits on either side.
Ezekiel	40:49	The length of the vestibule was twenty cubits, and the breadth twelve cubits, and people would go up to it by ten steps. And there were pillars beside the jambs, one on either side.
Ezekiel	41:1	Then he brought me to the nave and measured the jambs. On each side six cubits was the breadth of the jambs.
Ezekiel	41:2	And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sidewalls of the entrance were five cubits on either side. And he measured the length of the nave, forty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits.
Ezekiel	41:3	Then he went into the inner room and measured the jambs of the entrance, two cubits; and the entrance, six cubits; and the sidewalls on either side of the entrance, seven cubits.
Ezekiel	41:4	And he measured the length of the room, twenty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits, across the nave. And he said to me, "This is the Most Holy Place."
Ezekiel	41:5	Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick, and the breadth of the side chambers, four cubits, all around the temple.
Ezekiel	41:6	And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, thirty in each story. There were offsets all around the wall of the temple to serve as supports for the side chambers, so that they should not be supported by the wall of the temple.
Ezekiel	41:7	And it became broader as it wound upward to the side chambers, because the temple was enclosed upward all around the temple. Thus the temple had a broad area upward, and so one went up from the lowest story to the top story through the middle story.
Ezekiel	41:8	I saw also that the temple had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed of six long cubits.
Ezekiel	41:9	The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits. The free space between the side chambers of the temple and the
Ezekiel	41:10	other chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits all around the temple on every side.
Ezekiel	41:11	And the doors of the side chambers opened on the free space, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south. And the breadth of the free space was five cubits all around.
Ezekiel	41:12	The building that was facing the separate yard on the west side was seventy cubits broad, and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length ninety cubits.
Ezekiel	41:13	Then he measured the temple, a hundred cubits long; and the yard and the building with its walls, a hundred cubits long;
Ezekiel	41:14	also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel	41:15	Then he measured the length of the building facing the yard that was at the back and its galleries on either side, a hundred cubits.The inside of the nave and the vestibules of the court,
Ezekiel	41:16	the thresholds and the narrow windows and the galleries all around the three of them, opposite the threshold, were paneled with wood all around, from the floor up to the windows (now the windows were covered),
Ezekiel	41:17	to the space above the door, even to the inner room, and on the outside. And on all the walls all around, inside and outside, was a measured pattern.
Ezekiel	41:18	It was carved of cherubim and palm trees, a palm tree between cherub and cherub. Every cherub had two faces:
Ezekiel	41:19	a human face toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around.
Ezekiel	41:20	From the floor to above the door, cherubim and palm trees were carved; similarly the wall of the nave.
Ezekiel	41:21	The doorposts of the nave were squared, and in front of the Holy Place was something resembling
Ezekiel	41:22	an altar of wood, three cubits high, two cubits long, and two cubits broad. Its corners, its base, and its walls were of wood. He said to me, "This is the table that is before the LORD."
Ezekiel	41:23	The nave and the Holy Place had each a double door.
Ezekiel	41:24	The double doors had two leaves apiece, two swinging leaves for each door.
Ezekiel	41:25	And on the doors of the nave were carved cherubim and palm trees, such as were carved on the walls. And there was a canopy of wood in front of the vestibule outside.
Ezekiel	41:26	And there were narrow windows and palm trees on either side, on the sidewalls of the vestibule, the side chambers of the temple, and the canopies.
Ezekiel	42:1	Then he led me out into the outer court, toward the north, and he brought me to the chambers that were opposite the separate yard and opposite the building on the north.
Ezekiel	42:2	The length of the building whose door faced north was a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty cubits.
Ezekiel	42:3	Facing the twenty cubits that belonged to the inner court, and facing the pavement that belonged to the outer court, was gallery against gallery in three stories.
Ezekiel	42:4	And before the chambers was a passage inward, ten cubits wide and a hundred cubits long, and their doors were on the north.
Ezekiel	42:5	Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took more away from them than from the lower and middle chambers of the building.
Ezekiel	42:6	For they were in three stories, and they had no pillars like the pillars of the courts. Thus the upper chambers were set back from the ground more than the lower and the middle ones.
Ezekiel	42:7	And there was a wall outside parallel to the chambers, toward the outer court, opposite the chambers, fifty cubits long.
Ezekiel	42:8	For the chambers on the outer court were fifty cubits long, while those opposite the nave were a hundred cubits long.
Ezekiel	42:9	Below these chambers was an entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court.
Ezekiel	42:10	In the thickness of the wall of the court, on the south also, opposite the yard and opposite the building, there were chambers
Ezekiel	42:11	with a passage in front of them. They were similar to the chambers on the north, of the same length and breadth, with the same exits and arrangements and doors,
Ezekiel	42:12	as were the entrances of the chambers on the south. There was an entrance at the beginning of the passage, the passage before the corresponding wall on the east as one enters them.
Ezekiel	42:13	Then he said to me, "The north chambers and the south chambers opposite the yard are the holy chambers, where the priests who approach the LORD shall eat the most holy offerings. There they shall put the most holy offerings--the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, for the place is holy.
Ezekiel	42:14	When the priests enter the Holy Place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court without laying there the garments in which they minister, for these are holy. They shall put on other garments before they go near to that which is for the people."
Ezekiel	42:15	Now when he had finished measuring the interior of the temple area, he led me out by the gate that faced east, and measured the temple area all around.
Ezekiel	42:16	He measured the east side with the measuring reed, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Ezekiel	42:17	He measured the north side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Ezekiel	42:18	He measured the south side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.
Ezekiel	42:19	Then he turned to the west side and measured, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.
Ezekiel	42:20	He measured it on the four sides. It had a wall around it, 500 cubits long and 500 cubits broad, to make a separation between the holy and the common.
Ezekiel	43:1	Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east.
Ezekiel	43:2	And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the east. And the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory.
Ezekiel	43:3	And the vision I saw was just like the vision that I had seen when he came to destroy the city, and just like the vision that I had seen by the Chebar canal. And I fell on my face.
Ezekiel	43:4	As the glory of the LORD entered the temple by the gate facing east,
Ezekiel	43:5	the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court; and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
Ezekiel	43:6	While the man was standing beside me, I heard one speaking to me out of the temple,
Ezekiel	43:7	and he said to me, "Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the people of Israel forever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoring and by the dead bodies of their kings at their high places,
Ezekiel	43:8	by setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall between me and them. They have defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed, so I have consumed them in my anger.
Ezekiel	43:9	Now let them put away their whoring and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in their midst forever.
Ezekiel	43:10	"As for you, son of man, describe to the house of Israel the temple, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and they shall measure the plan.
Ezekiel	43:11	And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the temple, its arrangement, its exits and its entrances, that is, its whole design; and make known to them as well all its statutes and its whole design and all its laws, and write it down in their sight, so that they may observe all its laws and all its statutes and carry them out.
Ezekiel	43:12	This is the law of the temple: the whole territory on the top of the mountain all around shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the temple.
Ezekiel	43:13	"These are the measurements of the altar by cubits (the cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth): its base shall be one cubit high and one cubit broad, with a rim of one span around its edge. And this shall be the height of the altar:
Ezekiel	43:14	from the base on the ground to the lower ledge, two cubits, with a breadth of one cubit; and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge, four cubits, with a breadth of one cubit;
Ezekiel	43:15	and the altar hearth, four cubits; and from the altar hearth projecting upward, four horns.
Ezekiel	43:16	The altar hearth shall be square, twelve cubits long by twelve broad.
Ezekiel	43:17	The ledge also shall be square, fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad, with a rim around it half a cubit broad, and its base one cubit all around. The steps of the altar shall face east."
Ezekiel	43:18	And he said to me, "Son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: These are the ordinances for the altar: On the day when it is erected for offering burnt offerings upon it and for throwing blood against it,
Ezekiel	43:19	you shall give to the Levitical priests of the family of Zadok, who draw near to me to minister to me, declares the Lord GOD, a bull from the herd for a sin offering.
Ezekiel	43:20	And you shall take some of its blood and put it on the four horns of the altar and on the four corners of the ledge and upon the rim all around. Thus you shall purify the altar and make atonement for it.
Ezekiel	43:21	You shall also take the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place belonging to the temple, outside the sacred area.
Ezekiel	43:22	And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering; and the altar shall be purified, as it was purified with the bull.
Ezekiel	43:23	When you have finished purifying it, you shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish and a ram from the flock without blemish.
Ezekiel	43:24	You shall present them before the LORD, and the priests shall sprinkle salt on them and offer them up as a burnt offering to the LORD.
Ezekiel	43:25	For seven days you shall provide daily a male goat for a sin offering; also, a bull from the herd and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be provided.
Ezekiel	43:26	Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and cleanse it, and so consecrate it.
Ezekiel	43:27	And when they have completed these days, then from the eighth day onward the priests shall offer on the altar your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, and I will accept you, declares the Lord GOD."
Ezekiel	44:1	Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east. And it was shut.
Ezekiel	44:2	And the LORD said to me, "This gate shall remain shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut.
Ezekiel	44:3	Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the LORD. He shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way."
Ezekiel	44:4	Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the temple of the LORD. And I fell on my face.
Ezekiel	44:5	And the LORD said to me, "Son of man, mark well, see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I shall tell you concerning all the statutes of the temple of the LORD and all its laws. And mark well the entrance to the temple and all the exits from the sanctuary.
Ezekiel	44:6	And say to the rebellious house, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: O house of Israel, enough of all your abominations,
Ezekiel	44:7	in admitting foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, to be in my sanctuary, profaning my temple, when you offer to me my food, the fat and the blood. You have broken my covenant, in addition to all your abominations.
Ezekiel	44:8	And you have not kept charge of my holy things, but you have set others to keep my charge for you in my sanctuary.
Ezekiel	44:9	"Thus says the Lord GOD: No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the people of Israel, shall enter my sanctuary.
Ezekiel	44:10	But the Levites who went far from me, going astray from me after their idols when Israel went astray, shall bear their punishment.
Ezekiel	44:11	They shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the temple and ministering in the temple. They shall slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before the people, to minister to them.
Ezekiel	44:12	Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them, declares the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their punishment.
Ezekiel	44:13	They shall not come near to me, to serve me as priest, nor come near any of my holy things and the things that are most holy, but they shall bear their shame and the abominations that they have committed.
Ezekiel	44:14	Yet I will appoint them to keep charge of the temple, to do all its service and all that is to be done in it.
Ezekiel	44:15	"But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the people of Israel went astray from me, shall come near to me to minister to me. And they shall stand before me to offer me the fat and the blood, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	44:16	They shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table, to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge.
Ezekiel	44:17	When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments. They shall have nothing of wool on them, while they minister at the gates of the inner court, and within.
Ezekiel	44:18	They shall have linen turbans on their heads, and linen undergarments around their waists. They shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat.
Ezekiel	44:19	And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they have been ministering and lay them in the holy chambers. And they shall put on other garments, lest they communicate holiness to the people with their garments.
Ezekiel	44:20	They shall not shave their heads or let their locks grow long; they shall surely trim the hair of their heads.
Ezekiel	44:21	No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court.
Ezekiel	44:22	They shall not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only virgins of the offspring of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
Ezekiel	44:23	They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common, and show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean.
Ezekiel	44:24	In a dispute, they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbaths holy.
Ezekiel	44:25	They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person. However, for father or mother, for son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister they may defile themselves.
Ezekiel	44:26	After he has become clean, they shall count seven days for him.
Ezekiel	44:27	And on the day that he goes into the Holy Place, into the inner court, to minister in the Holy Place, he shall offer his sin offering, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	44:28	"This shall be their inheritance: I am their inheritance: and you shall give them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
Ezekiel	44:29	They shall eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
Ezekiel	44:30	And the first of all the firstfruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds from all your offerings, shall belong to the priests. You shall also give to the priests the first of your dough, that a blessing may rest on your house.
Ezekiel	44:31	The priests shall not eat of anything, whether bird or beast, that has died of itself or is torn by wild animals.
Ezekiel	45:1	"When you allot the land as an inheritance, you shall set apart for the LORD a portion of the land as a holy district, 25,000 cubits long and 20,000 cubits broad. It shall be holy throughout its whole extent.
Ezekiel	45:2	Of this a square plot of 500 by 500 cubits shall be for the sanctuary, with fifty cubits for an open space around it.
Ezekiel	45:3	And from this measured district you shall measure off a section 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 broad, in which shall be the sanctuary, the Most Holy Place.
Ezekiel	45:4	It shall be the holy portion of the land. It shall be for the priests, who minister in the sanctuary and approach the LORD to minister to him, and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
Ezekiel	45:5	Another section, 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 cubits broad, shall be for the Levites who minister at the temple, as their possession for cities to live in.
Ezekiel	45:6	"Alongside the portion set apart as the holy district you shall assign for the property of the city an area 5,000 cubits broad and 25,000 cubits long. It shall belong to the whole house of Israel.
Ezekiel	45:7	"And to the prince shall belong the land on both sides of the holy district and the property of the city, alongside the holy district and the property of the city, on the west and on the east, corresponding in length to one of the tribal portions, and extending from the western to the eastern boundary
Ezekiel	45:8	of the land. It is to be his property in Israel. And my princes shall no more oppress my people, but they shall let the house of Israel have the land according to their tribes.
Ezekiel	45:9	"Thus says the Lord GOD: Enough, O princes of Israel! Put away violence and oppression, and execute justice and righteousness. Cease your evictions of my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	45:10	"You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
Ezekiel	45:11	The ephah and the bath shall be of the same measure, the bath containing one tenth of a homer, and the ephah one tenth of a homer; the homer shall be the standard measure.
Ezekiel	45:12	The shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels plus twenty-five shekels plus fifteen shekels shall be your mina.
Ezekiel	45:13	"This is the offering that you shall make: one sixth of an ephah from each homer of wheat, and one sixth of an ephah from each homer of barley,
Ezekiel	45:14	and as the fixed portion of oil, measured in baths, one tenth of a bath from each cor (the cor, like the homer, contains ten baths).
Ezekiel	45:15	And one sheep from every flock of two hundred, from the watering places of Israel for grain offering, burnt offering, and peace offerings, to make atonement for them, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	45:16	All the people of the land shall be obliged to give this offering to the prince in Israel.
Ezekiel	45:17	It shall be the prince's duty to furnish the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and drink offerings, at the feasts, the new moons, and the Sabbaths, all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall provide the sin offerings, grain offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement on behalf of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel	45:18	"Thus says the Lord GOD: In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a bull from the herd without blemish, and purify the sanctuary.
Ezekiel	45:19	The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it on the doorposts of the temple, the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the posts of the gate of the inner court.
Ezekiel	45:20	You shall do the same on the seventh day of the month for anyone who has sinned through error or ignorance; so you shall make atonement for the temple.
Ezekiel	45:21	"In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall celebrate the Feast of the Passover, and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten.
Ezekiel	45:22	On that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a young bull for a sin offering.
Ezekiel	45:23	And on the seven days of the festival he shall provide as a burnt offering to the LORD seven young bulls and seven rams without blemish, on each of the seven days; and a male goat daily for a sin offering.
Ezekiel	45:24	And he shall provide as a grain offering an ephah for each bull, an ephah for each ram, and a hin of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel	45:25	In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month and for the seven days of the feast, he shall make the same provision for sin offerings, burnt offerings, and grain offerings, and for the oil.
Ezekiel	46:1	"Thus says the Lord GOD: The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut on the six working days, but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
Ezekiel	46:2	The prince shall enter by the vestibule of the gate from outside, and shall take his stand by the post of the gate. The priests shall offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening.
Ezekiel	46:3	The people of the land shall bow down at the entrance of that gate before the LORD on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.
Ezekiel	46:4	The burnt offering that the prince offers to the LORD on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish.
Ezekiel	46:5	And the grain offering with the ram shall be an ephah, and the grain offering with the lambs shall be as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel	46:6	On the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, and six lambs and a ram, which shall be without blemish.
Ezekiel	46:7	As a grain offering he shall provide an ephah with the bull and an ephah with the ram, and with the lambs as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel	46:8	When the prince enters, he shall enter by the vestibule of the gate, and he shall go out by the same way.
Ezekiel	46:9	"When the people of the land come before the LORD at the appointed feasts, he who enters by the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate, and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate: no one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered, but each shall go out straight ahead.
Ezekiel	46:10	When they enter, the prince shall enter with them, and when they go out, he shall go out.
Ezekiel	46:11	"At the feasts and the appointed festivals, the grain offering with a young bull shall be an ephah, and with a ram an ephah, and with the lambs as much as one is able to give, together with a hin of oil to an ephah.
Ezekiel	46:12	When the prince provides a freewill offering, either a burnt offering or peace offerings as a freewill offering to the LORD, the gate facing east shall be opened for him. And he shall offer his burnt offering or his peace offerings as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he has gone out the gate shall be shut.
Ezekiel	46:13	"You shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to the LORD daily; morning by morning you shall provide it.
Ezekiel	46:14	And you shall provide a grain offering with it morning by morning, one sixth of an ephah, and one third of a hin of oil to moisten the flour, as a grain offering to the LORD. This is a perpetual statute.
Ezekiel	46:15	Thus the lamb and the meal offering and the oil shall be provided, morning by morning, for a regular burnt offering.
Ezekiel	46:16	"Thus says the Lord GOD: If the prince makes a gift to any of his sons as his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons. It is their property by inheritance.
Ezekiel	46:17	But if he makes a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty. Then it shall revert to the prince; surely it is his inheritance--it shall belong to his sons.
Ezekiel	46:18	The prince shall not take any of the inheritance of the people, thrusting them out of their property. He shall give his sons their inheritance out of his own property, so that none of my people shall be scattered from his property."
Ezekiel	46:19	Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate, to the north row of the holy chambers for the priests, and behold, a place was there at the extreme western end of them.
Ezekiel	46:20	And he said to me, "This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the grain offering, in order not to bring them out into the outer court and so communicate holiness to the people."
Ezekiel	46:21	Then he brought me out to the outer court and led me around to the four corners of the court. And behold, in each corner of the court there was another court--
Ezekiel	46:22	in the four corners of the court were small courts, forty cubits long and thirty broad; the four were of the same size.
Ezekiel	46:23	On the inside, around each of the four courts was a row of masonry, with hearths made at the bottom of the rows all around.
Ezekiel	46:24	Then he said to me, "These are the kitchens where those who minister at the temple shall boil the sacrifices of the people."
Ezekiel	47:1	Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple toward the east (for the temple faced east). The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar.
Ezekiel	47:2	Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces toward the east; and behold, the water was trickling out on the south side.
Ezekiel	47:3	Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits, and then led me through the water, and it was ankle-deep.
Ezekiel	47:4	Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was knee-deep. Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was waist-deep.
Ezekiel	47:5	Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.
Ezekiel	47:6	And he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen this?"Then he led me back to the bank of the river.
Ezekiel	47:7	As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other.
Ezekiel	47:8	And he said to me, "This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah, and enters the sea; when the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh.
Ezekiel	47:9	And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live, and there will be very many fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh; so everything will live where the river goes.
Ezekiel	47:10	Fishermen will stand beside the sea. From Engedi to Eneglaim it will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea.
Ezekiel	47:11	But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh; they are to be left for salt.
Ezekiel	47:12	And on the banks, on both sides of the river, there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing."
Ezekiel	47:13	Thus says the Lord GOD: "This is the boundary by which you shall divide the land for inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions.
Ezekiel	47:14	And you shall divide equally what I swore to give to your fathers. This land shall fall to you as your inheritance.
Ezekiel	47:15	"This shall be the boundary of the land: On the north side, from the Great Sea by way of Hethlon to Lebo-hamath, and on to Zedad,
Ezekiel	47:16	Berothah, Sibraim (which lies on the border between Damascus and Hamath), as far as Hazer-hatticon, which is on the border of Hauran.
Ezekiel	47:17	So the boundary shall run from the sea to Hazar-enan, which is on the northern border of Damascus, with the border of Hamath to the north. This shall be the north side.
Ezekiel	47:18	"On the east side, the boundary shall run between Hauran and Damascus; along the Jordan between Gilead and the land of Israel; to the eastern sea and as far as Tamar. This shall be the east side.
Ezekiel	47:19	"On the south side, it shall run from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribah-kadesh, from there along the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea. This shall be the south side.
Ezekiel	47:20	"On the west side, the Great Sea shall be the boundary to a point opposite Lebo-hamath. This shall be the west side.
Ezekiel	47:21	"So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel	47:22	You shall allot it as an inheritance for yourselves and for the sojourners who reside among you and have had children among you. They shall be to you as native-born children of Israel. With you they shall be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel	47:23	In whatever tribe the sojourner resides, there you shall assign him his inheritance, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	48:1	"These are the names of the tribes: Beginning at the northern extreme, beside the way of Hethlon to Lebo-hamath, as far as Hazar-enan (which is on the northern border of Damascus over against Hamath), and extending from the east side to the west, Dan, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:2	Adjoining the territory of Dan, from the east side to the west, Asher, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:3	Adjoining the territory of Asher, from the east side to the west, Naphtali, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:4	Adjoining the territory of Naphtali, from the east side to the west, Manasseh, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:5	Adjoining the territory of Manasseh, from the east side to the west, Ephraim, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:6	Adjoining the territory of Ephraim, from the east side to the west, Reuben, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:7	Adjoining the territory of Reuben, from the east side to the west, Judah, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:8	"Adjoining the territory of Judah, from the east side to the west, shall be the portion which you shall set apart, 25,000 cubits in breadth, and in length equal to one of the tribal portions, from the east side to the west, with the sanctuary in the midst of it.
Ezekiel	48:9	The portion that you shall set apart for the LORD shall be 25,000 cubits in length, and 20,000 in breadth.
Ezekiel	48:10	These shall be the allotments of the holy portion: the priests shall have an allotment measuring 25,000 cubits on the northern side, 10,000 cubits in breadth on the western side, 10,000 in breadth on the eastern side, and 25,000 in length on the southern side, with the sanctuary of the LORD in the midst of it.
Ezekiel	48:11	This shall be for the consecrated priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept my charge, who did not go astray when the people of Israel went astray, as the Levites did.
Ezekiel	48:12	And it shall belong to them as a special portion from the holy portion of the land, a most holy place, adjoining the territory of the Levites.
Ezekiel	48:13	And alongside the territory of the priests, the Levites shall have an allotment 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 in breadth. The whole length shall be 25,000 cubits and the breadth 20,000.
Ezekiel	48:14	They shall not sell or exchange any of it. They shall not alienate this choice portion of the land, for it is holy to the LORD.
Ezekiel	48:15	"The remainder, 5,000 cubits in breadth and 25,000 in length, shall be for common use for the city, for dwellings and for open country. In the midst of it shall be the city,
Ezekiel	48:16	and these shall be its measurements: the north side 4,500 cubits, the south side 4,500, the east side 4,500, and the west side 4,500.
Ezekiel	48:17	And the city shall have open land: on the north 250 cubits, on the south 250, on the east 250, and on the west 250.
Ezekiel	48:18	The remainder of the length alongside the holy portion shall be 10,000 cubits to the east, and 10,000 to the west, and it shall be alongside the holy portion. Its produce shall be food for the workers of the city.
Ezekiel	48:19	And the workers of the city, from all the tribes of Israel, shall till it.
Ezekiel	48:20	The whole portion that you shall set apart shall be 25,000 cubits square, that is, the holy portion together with the property of the city.
Ezekiel	48:21	"What remains on both sides of the holy portion and of the property of the city shall belong to the prince. Extending from the 25,000 cubits of the holy portion to the east border, and westward from the 25,000 cubits to the west border, parallel to the tribal portions, it shall belong to the prince. The holy portion with the sanctuary of the temple shall be in its midst.
Ezekiel	48:22	It shall be separate from the property of the Levites and the property of the city, which are in the midst of that which belongs to the prince. The portion of the prince shall lie between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin.
Ezekiel	48:23	"As for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west, Benjamin, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:24	Adjoining the territory of Benjamin, from the east side to the west, Simeon, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:25	Adjoining the territory of Simeon, from the east side to the west, Issachar, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:26	Adjoining the territory of Issachar, from the east side to the west, Zebulun, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:27	Adjoining the territory of Zebulun, from the east side to the west, Gad, one portion.
Ezekiel	48:28	And adjoining the territory of Gad to the south, the boundary shall run from Tamar to the waters of Meribah-kadesh, from there along the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea.
Ezekiel	48:29	This is the land that you shall allot as an inheritance among the tribes of Israel, and these are their portions, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel	48:30	"These shall be the exits of the city: On the north side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure,
Ezekiel	48:31	three gates, the gate of Reuben, the gate of Judah, and the gate of Levi, the gates of the city being named after the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel	48:32	On the east side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, and the gate of Dan.
Ezekiel	48:33	On the south side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates, the gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun.
Ezekiel	48:34	On the west side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naphtali.
Ezekiel	48:35	The circumference of the city shall be 18,000 cubits. And the name of the city from that time on shall be, The LORD is there."
Daniel	1:1	In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it.
Daniel	1:2	And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God. And he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his god.
Daniel	1:3	Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility,
Daniel	1:4	youths without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace, and to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans.
Daniel	1:5	The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, and of the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king.
Daniel	1:6	Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah of the tribe of Judah.
Daniel	1:7	And the chief of the eunuchs gave them names: Daniel he called Belteshazzar, Hananiah he called Shadrach, Mishael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego.
Daniel	1:8	But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food, or with the wine that he drank. Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself.
Daniel	1:9	And God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs,
Daniel	1:10	and the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, "I fear my lord the king, who assigned your food and your drink; for why should he see that you were in worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So you would endanger my head with the king."
Daniel	1:11	Then Daniel said to the steward whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah,
Daniel	1:12	"Test your servants for ten days; let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink.
Daniel	1:13	Then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your servants according to what you see."
Daniel	1:14	So he listened to them in this matter, and tested them for ten days.
Daniel	1:15	At the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate the king's food.
Daniel	1:16	So the steward took away their food and the wine they were to drink, and gave them vegetables.
Daniel	1:17	As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.
Daniel	1:18	At the end of the time, when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, the chief of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.
Daniel	1:19	And the king spoke with them, and among all of them none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king.
Daniel	1:20	And in every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and enchanters that were in all his kingdom.
Daniel	1:21	And Daniel was there until the first year of King Cyrus.
Daniel	2:1	In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams; his spirit was troubled, and his sleep left him.
Daniel	2:2	Then the king commanded that the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans be summoned to tell the king his dreams. So they came in and stood before the king.
Daniel	2:3	And the king said to them, "I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream."
Daniel	2:4	Then the Chaldeans said to the king in Aramaic, "O king, live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation."
Daniel	2:5	The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, "The word from me is firm: if you do not make known to me the dream and its interpretation, you shall be torn limb from limb, and your houses shall be laid in ruins.
Daniel	2:6	But if you show the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. Therefore show me the dream and its interpretation."
Daniel	2:7	They answered a second time and said, "Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show its interpretation."
Daniel	2:8	The king answered and said, "I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see that the word from me is firm--
Daniel	2:9	if you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one sentence for you. You have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me till the times change. Therefore tell me the dream, and I shall know that you can show me its interpretation."
Daniel	2:10	The Chaldeans answered the king and said, "There is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand, for no great and powerful king has asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or Chaldean.
Daniel	2:11	The thing that the king asks is difficult, and no one can show it to the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh."
Daniel	2:12	Because of this the king was angry and very furious, and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be destroyed.
Daniel	2:13	So the decree went out, and the wise men were about to be killed; and they sought Daniel and his companions, to kill them.
Daniel	2:14	Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to Arioch, the captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel	2:15	He declared to Arioch, the king's captain, "Why is the decree of the king so urgent?" Then Arioch made the matter known to Daniel.
Daniel	2:16	And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time, that he might show the interpretation to the king.
Daniel	2:17	Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions,
Daniel	2:18	and told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions might not be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel	2:19	Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven.
Daniel	2:20	Daniel answered and said: "Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might.
Daniel	2:21	He changes times and seasons; he removes kings and sets up kings; he gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding;
Daniel	2:22	he reveals deep and hidden things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him.
Daniel	2:23	To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, for you have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter."
Daniel	2:24	Therefore Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon. He went and said thus to him, "Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon; bring me in before the king, and I will show the king the interpretation."
Daniel	2:25	Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus to him: "I have found among the exiles from Judah a man who will make known to the king the interpretation."
Daniel	2:26	The king said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, "Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its interpretation?"
Daniel	2:27	Daniel answered the king and said, "No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to the king the mystery that the king has asked,
Daniel	2:28	but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. Your dream and the visions of your head as you lay in bed are these:
Daniel	2:29	To you, O king, as you lay in bed came thoughts of what would be after this, and he who reveals mysteries made known to you what is to be.
Daniel	2:30	But as for me, this mystery has been revealed to me, not because of any wisdom that I have more than all the living, but in order that the interpretation may be made known to the king, and that you may know the thoughts of your mind.
Daniel	2:31	"You saw, O king, and behold, a great image. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance was frightening.
Daniel	2:32	The head of this image was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle and thighs of bronze,
Daniel	2:33	its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay.
Daniel	2:34	As you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand, and it struck the image on its feet of iron and clay, and broke them in pieces.
Daniel	2:35	Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold, all together were broken in pieces, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of them could be found. But the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth.
Daniel	2:36	"This was the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation.
Daniel	2:37	You, O king, the king of kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, and the might, and the glory,
Daniel	2:38	and into whose hand he has given, wherever they dwell, the children of man, the beasts of the field, and the birds of the heavens, making you rule over them all--you are the head of gold.
Daniel	2:39	Another kingdom inferior to you shall arise after you, and yet a third kingdom of bronze, which shall rule over all the earth.
Daniel	2:40	And there shall be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron, because iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things. And like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these.
Daniel	2:41	And as you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom, but some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay.
Daniel	2:42	And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle.
Daniel	2:43	As you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage, but they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay.
Daniel	2:44	And in the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever,
Daniel	2:45	just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure."
Daniel	2:46	Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel, and commanded that an offering and incense be offered up to him.
Daniel	2:47	The king answered and said to Daniel, "Truly, your God is God of gods and Lord of kings, and a revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery."
Daniel	2:48	Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel	2:49	Daniel made a request of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon. But Daniel remained at the king's court.
Daniel	3:1	King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits and its breadth six cubits. He set it up on the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.
Daniel	3:2	Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel	3:3	Then the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered for the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel	3:4	And the herald proclaimed aloud, "You are commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages,
Daniel	3:5	that when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up.
Daniel	3:6	And whoever does not fall down and worship shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace."
Daniel	3:7	Therefore, as soon as all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, all the peoples, nations, and languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel	3:8	Therefore at that time certain Chaldeans came forward and maliciously accused the Jews.
Daniel	3:9	They declared to King Nebuchadnezzar, "O king, live forever!
Daniel	3:10	You, O king, have made a decree, that every man who hears the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, shall fall down and worship the golden image.
Daniel	3:11	And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into a burning fiery furnace.
Daniel	3:12	There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, pay no attention to you; they do not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up."
Daniel	3:13	Then Nebuchadnezzar in furious rage commanded that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego be brought. So they brought these men before the king.
Daniel	3:14	Nebuchadnezzar answered and said to them, "Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image that I have set up?
Daniel	3:15	Now if you are ready when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, to fall down and worship the image that I have made, well and good. But if you do not worship, you shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace. And who is the god who will deliver you out of my hands?"
Daniel	3:16	Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, "O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
Daniel	3:17	If this be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand, O king.
Daniel	3:18	But if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up."
Daniel	3:19	Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with fury, and the expression of his face was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He ordered the furnace heated seven times more than it was usually heated.
Daniel	3:20	And he ordered some of the mighty men of his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel	3:21	Then these men were bound in their cloaks, their tunics, their hats, and their other garments, and they were thrown into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel	3:22	Because the king's order was urgent and the furnace overheated, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
Daniel	3:23	And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell bound into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel	3:24	Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished and rose up in haste. He declared to his counselors, "Did we not cast three men bound into the fire?" They answered and said to the king, "True, O king."
Daniel	3:25	He answered and said, "But I see four men unbound, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt; and the appearance of the fourth is like a son of the gods."
Daniel	3:26	Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace; he declared, "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out, and come here!" Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out from the fire.
Daniel	3:27	And the satraps, the prefects, the governors, and the king's counselors gathered together and saw that the fire had not had any power over the bodies of those men. The hair of their heads was not singed, their cloaks were not harmed, and no smell of fire had come upon them.
Daniel	3:28	Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel and delivered his servants, who trusted in him, and set aside the king's command, and yielded up their bodies rather than serve and worship any god except their own God.
Daniel	3:29	Therefore I make a decree: Any people, nation, or language that speaks anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be torn limb from limb, and their houses laid in ruins, for there is no other god who is able to rescue in this way."
Daniel	3:30	Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon.
Daniel	4:1	King Nebuchadnezzar to all peoples, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you!
Daniel	4:2	It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has done for me.
Daniel	4:3	How great are his signs, how mighty his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures from generation to generation.
Daniel	4:4	I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and prospering in my palace.
Daniel	4:5	I saw a dream that made me afraid. As I lay in bed the fancies and the visions of my head alarmed me.
Daniel	4:6	So I made a decree that all the wise men of Babylon should be brought before me, that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dream.
Daniel	4:7	Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers came in, and I told them the dream, but they could not make known to me its interpretation.
Daniel	4:8	At last Daniel came in before me--he who was named Belteshazzar after the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods--and I told him the dream, saying,
Daniel	4:9	"O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and that no mystery is too difficult for you, tell me the visions of my dream that I saw and their interpretation.
Daniel	4:10	The visions of my head as I lay in bed were these: I saw, and behold, a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great.
Daniel	4:11	The tree grew and became strong, and its top reached to heaven, and it was visible to the end of the whole earth.
Daniel	4:12	Its leaves were beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, and the birds of the heavens lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
Daniel	4:13	"I saw in the visions of my head as I lay in bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, came down from heaven.
Daniel	4:14	He proclaimed aloud and said thus: 'Chop down the tree and lop off its branches, strip off its leaves and scatter its fruit. Let the beasts flee from under it and the birds from its branches.
Daniel	4:15	But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, amid the tender grass of the field. Let him be wet with the dew of heaven. Let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth.
Daniel	4:16	Let his mind be changed from a man's, and let a beast's mind be given to him; and let seven periods of time pass over him.
Daniel	4:17	The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, the decision by the word of the holy ones, to the end that the living may know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will and sets over it the lowliest of men.'
Daniel	4:18	This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, saw. And you, O Belteshazzar, tell me the interpretation, because all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known to me the interpretation, but you are able, for the spirit of the holy gods is in you."
Daniel	4:19	Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was dismayed for a while, and his thoughts alarmed him. The king answered and said, "Belteshazzar, let not the dream or the interpretation alarm you." Belteshazzar answered and said, "My lord, may the dream be for those who hate you and its interpretation for your enemies!
Daniel	4:20	The tree you saw, which grew and became strong, so that its top reached to heaven, and it was visible to the end of the whole earth,
Daniel	4:21	whose leaves were beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which beasts of the field found shade, and in whose branches the birds of the heavens lived--
Daniel	4:22	it is you, O king, who have grown and become strong. Your greatness has grown and reaches to heaven, and your dominion to the ends of the earth.
Daniel	4:23	And because the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, 'Chop down the tree and destroy it, but leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field, and let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the field, till seven periods of time pass over him,'
Daniel	4:24	this is the interpretation, O king: It is a decree of the Most High, which has come upon my lord the king,
Daniel	4:25	that you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. You shall be made to eat grass like an ox, and you shall be wet with the dew of heaven, and seven periods of time shall pass over you, till you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will.
Daniel	4:26	And as it was commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree, your kingdom shall be confirmed for you from the time that you know that Heaven rules.
Daniel	4:27	Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you: break off your sins by practicing righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the oppressed, that there may perhaps be a lengthening of your prosperity."
Daniel	4:28	All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar.
Daniel	4:29	At the end of twelve months he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon,
Daniel	4:30	and the king answered and said, "Is not this great Babylon, which I have built by my mighty power as a royal residence and for the glory of my majesty?"
Daniel	4:31	While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, "O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom has departed from you,
Daniel	4:32	and you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. And you shall be made to eat grass like an ox, and seven periods of time shall pass over you, until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will."
Daniel	4:33	Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men and ate grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven till his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers, and his nails were like birds' claws.
Daniel	4:34	At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me, and I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever, for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to generation;
Daniel	4:35	all the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will among the host of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand or say to him, "What have you done?"
Daniel	4:36	At the same time my reason returned to me, and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me, and I was established in my kingdom, and still more greatness was added to me.
Daniel	4:37	Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those who walk in pride he is able to humble.
Daniel	5:1	King Belshazzar made a great feast for a thousand of his lords and drank wine in front of the thousand.
Daniel	5:2	Belshazzar, when he tasted the wine, commanded that the vessels of gold and of silver that Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem be brought, that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them.
Daniel	5:3	Then they brought in the golden vessels that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God in Jerusalem, and the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them.
Daniel	5:4	They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone.
Daniel	5:5	Immediately the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace, opposite the lampstand. And the king saw the hand as it wrote.
Daniel	5:6	Then the king's color changed, and his thoughts alarmed him; his limbs gave way, and his knees knocked together.
Daniel	5:7	The king called loudly to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers. The king declared to the wise men of Babylon, "Whoever reads this writing, and shows me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around his neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom."
Daniel	5:8	Then all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known to the king the interpretation.
Daniel	5:9	Then King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed, and his color changed, and his lords were perplexed.
Daniel	5:10	The queen, because of the words of the king and his lords, came into the banqueting hall, and the queen declared, "O king, live forever! Let not your thoughts alarm you or your color change.
Daniel	5:11	There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. In the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods were found in him, and King Nebuchadnezzar, your father--your father the king--made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers,
Daniel	5:12	because an excellent spirit, knowledge, and understanding to interpret dreams, explain riddles, and solve problems were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation."
Daniel	5:13	Then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, "You are that Daniel, one of the exiles of Judah, whom the king my father brought from Judah.
Daniel	5:14	I have heard of you that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you.
Daniel	5:15	Now the wise men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me to read this writing and make known to me its interpretation, but they could not show the interpretation of the matter.
Daniel	5:16	But I have heard that you can give interpretations and solve problems. Now if you can read the writing and make known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around your neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom."
Daniel	5:17	Then Daniel answered and said before the king, "Let your gifts be for yourself, and give your rewards to another. Nevertheless, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation.
Daniel	5:18	O king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father kingship and greatness and glory and majesty.
Daniel	5:19	And because of the greatness that he gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him. Whom he would, he killed, and whom he would, he kept alive; whom he would, he raised up, and whom he would, he humbled.
Daniel	5:20	But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was brought down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him.
Daniel	5:21	He was driven from among the children of mankind, and his mind was made like that of a beast, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. He was fed grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, until he knew that the Most High God rules the kingdom of mankind and sets over it whom he will.
Daniel	5:22	And you his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,
Daniel	5:23	but you have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven. And the vessels of his house have been brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them. And you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know, but the God in whose hand is your breath, and whose are all your ways, you have not honored.
Daniel	5:24	"Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed.
Daniel	5:25	And this is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, and PARSIN.
Daniel	5:26	This is the interpretation of the matter: MENE, God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end;
Daniel	5:27	TEKEL, you have been weighed in the balances and found wanting;
Daniel	5:28	PERES, your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians."
Daniel	5:29	Then Belshazzar gave the command, and Daniel was clothed with purple, a chain of gold was put around his neck, and a proclamation was made about him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
Daniel	5:30	That very night Belshazzar the Chaldean king was killed.
Daniel	5:31	And Darius the Mede received the kingdom, being about sixty-two years old.
Daniel	6:1	It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom 120 satraps, to be throughout the whole kingdom;
Daniel	6:2	and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was one, to whom these satraps should give account, so that the king might suffer no loss.
Daniel	6:3	Then this Daniel became distinguished above all the other presidents and satraps, because an excellent spirit was in him. And the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom.
Daniel	6:4	Then the presidents and the satraps sought to find a ground for complaint against Daniel with regard to the kingdom, but they could find no ground for complaint or any fault, because he was faithful, and no error or fault was found in him.
Daniel	6:5	Then these men said, "We shall not find any ground for complaint against this Daniel unless we find it in connection with the law of his God."
Daniel	6:6	Then these presidents and satraps came by agreement to the king and said to him, "O King Darius, live forever!
Daniel	6:7	All the presidents of the kingdom, the prefects and the satraps, the counselors and the governors are agreed that the king should establish an ordinance and enforce an injunction, that whoever makes petition to any god or man for thirty days, except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions.
Daniel	6:8	Now, O king, establish the injunction and sign the document, so that it cannot be changed, according to the law of the Medes and the Persians, which cannot be revoked."
Daniel	6:9	Therefore King Darius signed the document and injunction.
Daniel	6:10	When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house where he had windows in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he had done previously.
Daniel	6:11	Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel making petition and plea before his God.
Daniel	6:12	Then they came near and said before the king, concerning the injunction, "O king! Did you not sign an injunction, that anyone who makes petition to any god or man within thirty days except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?" The king answered and said, "The thing stands fast, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be revoked."
Daniel	6:13	Then they answered and said before the king, "Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, or the injunction you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day."
Daniel	6:14	Then the king, when he heard these words, was much distressed and set his mind to deliver Daniel. And he labored till the sun went down to rescue him.
Daniel	6:15	Then these men came by agreement to the king and said to the king, "Know, O king, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians that no injunction or ordinance that the king establishes can be changed."
Daniel	6:16	Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of lions. The king declared to Daniel, "May your God, whom you serve continually, deliver you!"
Daniel	6:17	And a stone was brought and laid on the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet and with the signet of his lords, that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
Daniel	6:18	Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; no diversions were brought to him, and sleep fled from him.
Daniel	6:19	Then, at break of day, the king arose and went in haste to the den of lions.
Daniel	6:20	As he came near to the den where Daniel was, he cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to Daniel, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions?"
Daniel	6:21	Then Daniel said to the king, "O king, live forever!
Daniel	6:22	My God sent his angel and shut the lions' mouths, and they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless before him; and also before you, O king, I have done no harm."
Daniel	6:23	Then the king was exceedingly glad, and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because he had trusted in his God.
Daniel	6:24	And the king commanded, and those men who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions--they, their children, and their wives. And before they reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and broke all their bones in pieces.
Daniel	6:25	Then King Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth: "Peace be multiplied to you.
Daniel	6:26	I make a decree, that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for he is the living God, enduring forever; his kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the end.
Daniel	6:27	He delivers and rescues; he works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, he who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions."
Daniel	6:28	So this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian.
Daniel	7:1	In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter.
Daniel	7:2	Daniel declared, "I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea.
Daniel	7:3	And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another.
Daniel	7:4	The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I looked its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it.
Daniel	7:5	And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth; and it was told, 'Arise, devour much flesh.'
Daniel	7:6	After this I looked, and behold, another, like a leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast had four heads, and dominion was given to it.
Daniel	7:7	After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns.
Daniel	7:8	I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things.
Daniel	7:9	As I looked, thrones were placed, and the Ancient of days took his seat; his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames; its wheels were burning fire.
Daniel	7:10	A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court sat in judgment, and the books were opened.
Daniel	7:11	I looked then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked, the beast was killed, and its body destroyed and given over to be burned with fire.
Daniel	7:12	As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time.
Daniel	7:13	I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him.
Daniel	7:14	And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed.
Daniel	7:15	"As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and the visions of my head alarmed me.
Daniel	7:16	I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things.
Daniel	7:17	'These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth.
Daniel	7:18	But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever.'
Daniel	7:19	"Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast, which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with its teeth of iron and claws of bronze, and which devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet,
Daniel	7:20	and about the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up and before which three of them fell, the horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than its companions.
Daniel	7:21	As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them,
Daniel	7:22	until the Ancient of Days came, and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom.
Daniel	7:23	"Thus he said: 'As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces.
Daniel	7:24	As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them; he shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings.
Daniel	7:25	He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half a time.
Daniel	7:26	But the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end.
Daniel	7:27	And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High; their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey them.'
Daniel	7:28	"Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly alarmed me, and my color changed, but I kept the matter in my heart."
Daniel	8:1	In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after that which appeared to me at the first.
Daniel	8:2	And I saw in the vision; and when I saw, I was in Susa the capital, which is in the province of Elam. And I saw in the vision, and I was at the Ulai canal.
Daniel	8:3	I raised my eyes and saw, and behold, a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns, and both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last.
Daniel	8:4	I saw the ram charging westward and northward and southward. No beast could stand before him, and there was no one who could rescue from his power. He did as he pleased and became great.
Daniel	8:5	As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the whole earth, without touching the ground. And the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes.
Daniel	8:6	He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the canal, and he ran at him in his powerful wrath.
Daniel	8:7	I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged against him and struck the ram and broke his two horns. And the ram had no power to stand before him, but he cast him down to the ground and trampled on him. And there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power.
Daniel	8:8	Then the goat became exceedingly great, but when he was strong, the great horn was broken, and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven.
Daniel	8:9	Out of one of them came a little horn, which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious land.
Daniel	8:10	It grew great, even to the host of heaven. And some of the host and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled on them.
Daniel	8:11	It became great, even as great as the Prince of the host. And the regular burnt offering was taken away from him, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown.
Daniel	8:12	And a host will be given over to it together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression, and it will throw truth to the ground, and it will act and prosper.
Daniel	8:13	Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one who spoke, "For how long is the vision concerning the regular burnt offering, the transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over of the sanctuary and host to be trampled underfoot?"
Daniel	8:14	And he said to me, "For 2,300 evenings and mornings. Then the sanctuary shall be restored to its rightful state."
Daniel	8:15	When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. And behold, there stood before me one having the appearance of a man.
Daniel	8:16	And I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Ulai, and it called, "Gabriel, make this man understand the vision."
Daniel	8:17	So he came near where I stood. And when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face. But he said to me, "Understand, O son of man, that the vision is for the time of the end."
Daniel	8:18	And when he had spoken to me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face to the ground. But he touched me and made me stand up.
Daniel	8:19	He said, "Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation, for it refers to the appointed time of the end.
Daniel	8:20	As for the ram that you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia.
Daniel	8:21	And the goat is the king of Greece. And the great horn between his eyes is the first king.
Daniel	8:22	As for the horn that was broken, in place of which four others arose, four kingdoms shall arise from his nation, but not with his power.
Daniel	8:23	And at the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors have reached their limit, a king of bold face, one who understands riddles, shall arise.
Daniel	8:24	His power shall be great--but not by his own power; and he shall cause fearful destruction and shall succeed in what he does, and destroy mighty men and the people who are the saints.
Daniel	8:25	By his cunning he shall make deceit prosper under his hand, and in his own mind he shall become great. Without warning he shall destroy many. And he shall even rise up against the Prince of princes, and he shall be broken--but by no human hand.
Daniel	8:26	The vision of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true, but seal up the vision, for it refers to many days from now."
Daniel	8:27	And I, Daniel, was overcome and lay sick for some days. Then I rose and went about the king's business, but I was appalled by the vision and did not understand it.
Daniel	9:1	In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, by descent a Mede, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans--
Daniel	9:2	in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that, according to the word of the LORD to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely, seventy years.
Daniel	9:3	Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
Daniel	9:4	I prayed to the LORD my God and made confession, saying, "O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,
Daniel	9:5	we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules.
Daniel	9:6	We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
Daniel	9:7	To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you.
Daniel	9:8	To us, O Lord, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you.
Daniel	9:9	To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him
Daniel	9:10	and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets.
Daniel	9:11	All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice. And the curse and oath that are written in the Law of Moses the servant of God have been poured out upon us, because we have sinned against him.
Daniel	9:12	He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled us, by bringing upon us a great calamity. For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem.
Daniel	9:13	As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us; yet we have not entreated the favor of the LORD our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth.
Daniel	9:14	Therefore the LORD has kept ready the calamity and has brought it upon us, for the LORD our God is righteous in all the works that he has done, and we have not obeyed his voice.
Daniel	9:15	And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
Daniel	9:16	"O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us.
Daniel	9:17	Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate.
Daniel	9:18	O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy.
Daniel	9:19	O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name."
Daniel	9:20	While I was speaking and praying, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my plea before the LORD my God for the holy hill of my God,
Daniel	9:21	while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the first, came to me in swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice.
Daniel	9:22	He made me understand, speaking with me and saying, "O Daniel, I have now come out to give you insight and understanding.
Daniel	9:23	At the beginning of your pleas for mercy a word went out, and I have come to tell it to you, for you are greatly loved. Therefore consider the word and understand the vision.
Daniel	9:24	"Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place.
Daniel	9:25	Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem to the coming of an anointed one, a prince, there shall be seven weeks. Then for sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with squares and moat, but in a troubled time.
Daniel	9:26	And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed.
Daniel	9:27	And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, and for half of the week he shall put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate, until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator."
Daniel	10:1	In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar. And the word was true, and it was a great conflict. And he understood the word and had understanding of the vision.
Daniel	10:2	In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks.
Daniel	10:3	I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, for the full three weeks.
Daniel	10:4	On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was standing on the bank of the great river (that is, the Tigris)
Daniel	10:5	I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen, with a belt of fine gold from Uphaz around his waist.
Daniel	10:6	His body was like beryl, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like flaming torches, his arms and legs like the gleam of burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude.
Daniel	10:7	And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves.
Daniel	10:8	So I was left alone and saw this great vision, and no strength was left in me. My radiant appearance was fearfully changed, and I retained no strength.
Daniel	10:9	Then I heard the sound of his words, and as I heard the sound of his words, I fell on my face in deep sleep with my face to the ground.
Daniel	10:10	And behold, a hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees.
Daniel	10:11	And he said to me, "O Daniel, man greatly loved, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright, for now I have been sent to you." And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling.
Daniel	10:12	Then he said to me, "Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and humbled yourself before your God, your words have been heard, and I have come because of your words.
Daniel	10:13	The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia,
Daniel	10:14	and came to make you understand what is to happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision is for days yet to come."
Daniel	10:15	When he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and was mute.
Daniel	10:16	And behold, one in the likeness of the children of man touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke. I said to him who stood before me, "O my lord, by reason of the vision pains have come upon me, and I retain no strength.
Daniel	10:17	How can my lord's servant talk with my lord? For now no strength remains in me, and no breath is left in me."
Daniel	10:18	Again one having the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me.
Daniel	10:19	And he said, "O man greatly loved, fear not, peace be with you; be strong and of good courage." And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, "Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me."
Daniel	10:20	Then he said, "Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the prince of Persia; and when I go out, behold, the prince of Greece will come.
Daniel	10:21	But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth: there is none who contends by my side against these except Michael, your prince.
Daniel	11:1	And as for me, in the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him.
Daniel	11:2	"And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of Greece.
Daniel	11:3	Then a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion and do as he wills.
Daniel	11:4	And as soon as he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven, but not to his posterity, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be plucked up and go to others besides these.
Daniel	11:5	"Then the king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall rule, and his authority shall be a great authority.
Daniel	11:6	After some years they shall make an alliance, and the daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north to make an agreement. But she shall not retain the strength of her arm, and he and his arm shall not endure, but she shall be given up, and her attendants, he who fathered her, and he who supported her in those times.
Daniel	11:7	"And from a branch from her roots one shall arise in his place. He shall come against the army and enter the fortress of the king of the north, and he shall deal with them and shall prevail.
Daniel	11:8	He shall also carry off to Egypt their gods with their metal images and their precious vessels of silver and gold, and for some years he shall refrain from attacking the king of the north.
Daniel	11:9	Then the latter shall come into the realm of the king of the south but shall return to his own land.
Daniel	11:10	"His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall keep coming and overflow and pass through, and again shall carry the war as far as his fortress.
Daniel	11:11	Then the king of the south, moved with rage, shall come out and fight with the king of the north. And he shall raise a great multitude, but it shall be given into his hand.
Daniel	11:12	And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he shall not prevail.
Daniel	11:13	For the king of the north shall again raise a multitude, greater than the first. And after some years he shall come on with a great army and abundant supplies.
Daniel	11:14	"In those times many shall rise against the king of the south, and the violent among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the vision, but they shall fail.
Daniel	11:15	Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siegeworks and take a well-fortified city. And the forces of the south shall not stand, or even his best troops, for there shall be no strength to stand.
Daniel	11:16	But he who comes against him shall do as he wills, and none shall stand before him. And he shall stand in the glorious land, with destruction in his hand.
Daniel	11:17	He shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and he shall bring terms of an agreement and perform them. He shall give him the daughter of women to destroy the kingdom, but it shall not stand or be to his advantage.
Daniel	11:18	Afterward he shall turn his face to the coastlands and shall capture many of them, but a commander shall put an end to his insolence. Indeed, he shall turn his insolence back upon him.
Daniel	11:19	Then he shall turn his face back toward the fortresses of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall, and shall not be found.
Daniel	11:20	"Then shall arise in his place one who shall send an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom. But within a few days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle.
Daniel	11:21	In his place shall arise a contemptible person to whom royal majesty has not been given. He shall come in without warning and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
Daniel	11:22	Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken, even the prince of the covenant.
Daniel	11:23	And from the time that an alliance is made with him he shall act deceitfully, and he shall become strong with a small people.
Daniel	11:24	Without warning he shall come into the richest parts of the province, and he shall do what neither his fathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoil, and goods. He shall devise plans against strongholds, but only for a time.
Daniel	11:25	And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. And the king of the south shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him.
Daniel	11:26	Even those who eat his food shall break him. His army shall be swept away, and many shall fall down slain.
Daniel	11:27	And as for the two kings, their hearts shall be bent on doing evil. They shall speak lies at the same table, but to no avail, for the end is yet to be at the time appointed.
Daniel	11:28	And he shall return to his land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant. And he shall work his will and return to his own land.
Daniel	11:29	"At the time appointed he shall return and come into the south, but it shall not be this time as it was before.
Daniel	11:30	For ships of Kittim shall come against him, and he shall be afraid and withdraw, and shall turn back and be enraged and take action against the holy covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who forsake the holy covenant.
Daniel	11:31	Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and fortress, and shall take away the regular burnt offering. And they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate.
Daniel	11:32	He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action.
Daniel	11:33	And the wise among the people shall make many understand, though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame, by captivity and plunder.
Daniel	11:34	When they stumble, they shall receive a little help. And many shall join themselves to them with flattery,
Daniel	11:35	and some of the wise shall stumble, so that they may be refined, purified, and made white, until the time of the end, for it still awaits the appointed time.
Daniel	11:36	"And the king shall do as he wills. He shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak astonishing things against the God of gods. He shall prosper till the indignation is accomplished; for what is decreed shall be done.
Daniel	11:37	He shall pay no attention to the gods of his fathers, or to the one beloved by women. He shall not pay attention to any other god, for he shall magnify himself above all.
Daniel	11:38	He shall honor the god of fortresses instead of these. A god whom his fathers did not know he shall honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and costly gifts.
Daniel	11:39	He shall deal with the strongest fortresses with the help of a foreign god. Those who acknowledge him he shall load with honor. He shall make them rulers over many and shall divide the land for a price.
Daniel	11:40	"At the time of the end, the king of the south shall attack him, but the king of the north shall rush upon him like a whirlwind, with chariots and horsemen, and with many ships. And he shall come into countries and shall overflow and pass through.
Daniel	11:41	He shall come into the glorious land. And tens of thousands shall fall, but these shall be delivered out of his hand: Edom and Moab and the main part of the Ammonites.
Daniel	11:42	He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of Egypt shall not escape.
Daniel	11:43	He shall become ruler of the treasures of gold and of silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and the Libyans and the Cushites shall follow in his train.
Daniel	11:44	But news from the east and the north shall alarm him, and he shall go out with great fury to destroy and devote many to destruction.
Daniel	11:45	And he shall pitch his palatial tents between the sea and the glorious holy mountain. Yet he shall come to his end, with none to help him.
Daniel	12:1	"At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince who has charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the book.
Daniel	12:2	And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
Daniel	12:3	And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above; and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever.
Daniel	12:4	But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, until the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall increase."
Daniel	12:5	Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank of the stream and one on that bank of the stream.
Daniel	12:6	And someone said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream, "How long shall it be till the end of these wonders?"
Daniel	12:7	And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream; he raised his right hand and his left hand toward heaven and swore by him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and half a time, and that when the shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end all these things would be finished.
Daniel	12:8	I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, "O my lord, what shall be the outcome of these things?"
Daniel	12:9	He said, "Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
Daniel	12:10	Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand.
Daniel	12:11	And from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away and the abomination that makes desolate is set up, there shall be 1,290 days.
Daniel	12:12	Blessed is he who waits and arrives at the 1,335 days.
Daniel	12:13	But go your way till the end. And you shall rest and shall stand in your allotted place at the end of the days."
Hosea	1:1	The word of the LORD that came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
Hosea	1:2	When the LORD first spoke through Hosea, the LORD said to Hosea, "Go, take to yourself a wife of whoredom and have children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the LORD."
Hosea	1:3	So he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son.
Hosea	1:4	And the LORD said to him, "Call his name Jezreel, for in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel.
Hosea	1:5	And on that day I will break the bow of Israel in the Valley of Jezreel."
Hosea	1:6	She conceived again and bore a daughter. And the LORD said to him, "Call her name No Mercy, for I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel, to forgive them at all.
Hosea	1:7	But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and I will save them by the LORD their God. I will not save them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen."
Hosea	1:8	When she had weaned No Mercy, she conceived and bore a son.
Hosea	1:9	And the LORD said, "Call his name Not My People, for you are not my people, and I am not your God."
Hosea	1:10	Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered. And in the place where it was said to them, "You are not my people," it shall be said to them, "Children of the living God."
Hosea	1:11	And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint for themselves one head. And they shall go up from the land, for great shall be the day of Jezreel.
Hosea	2:1	Say to your brothers, "You are my people," and to your sisters, "You have received mercy."
Hosea	2:2	"Plead with your mother, plead--for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband--that she put away her whoring from her face, and her adultery from between her breasts;
Hosea	2:3	lest I strip her naked and make her as in the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst.
Hosea	2:4	Upon her children also I will have no mercy, because they are children of whoredom.
Hosea	2:5	For their mother has played the whore; she who conceived them has acted shamefully. For she said, 'I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.'
Hosea	2:6	Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, so that she cannot find her paths.
Hosea	2:7	She shall pursue her lovers but not overtake them, and she shall seek them but shall not find them. Then she shall say, 'I will go and return to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now.'
Hosea	2:8	And she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, and the oil, and who lavished on her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
Hosea	2:9	Therefore I will take back my grain in its time, and my wine in its season, and I will take away my wool and my flax, which were to cover her nakedness.
Hosea	2:10	Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of my hand.
Hosea	2:11	And I will put an end to all her mirth, her feasts, her new moons, her Sabbaths, and all her appointed feasts.
Hosea	2:12	And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, of which she said, 'These are my wages, which my lovers have given me.' I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall devour them.
Hosea	2:13	And I will punish her for the feast days of the Baals when she burned offerings to them and adorned herself with her ring and jewelry, and went after her lovers and forgot me, declares the LORD.
Hosea	2:14	"Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
Hosea	2:15	And there I will give her her vineyards and make the Valley of Achor a door of hope. And there she shall answer as in the days of her youth, as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt.
Hosea	2:16	"And in that day, declares the LORD, you will call me 'My Husband,' and no longer will you call me 'My Baal.'
Hosea	2:17	For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by name no more.
Hosea	2:18	And I will make for them a covenant on that day with the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the creeping things of the ground. And I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will make you lie down in safety.
Hosea	2:19	And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy.
Hosea	2:20	I will betroth you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the LORD.
Hosea	2:21	"And in that day I will answer, declares the LORD, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth,
Hosea	2:22	and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer Jezreel,
Hosea	2:23	and I will sow her for myself in the land. And I will have mercy on No Mercy, and I will say to Not My People, 'You are my people'; and he shall say, 'You are my God.'"
Hosea	3:1	And the LORD said to me, "Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the LORD loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins."
Hosea	3:2	So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lethech of barley.
Hosea	3:3	And I said to her, "You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to another man; so will I also be to you."
Hosea	3:4	For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods.
Hosea	3:5	Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the LORD their God, and David their king, and they shall come in fear to the LORD and to his goodness in the latter days.
Hosea	4:1	Hear the word of the LORD, O children of Israel, for the LORD has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land;
Hosea	4:2	there is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery; they break all bounds, and bloodshed follows bloodshed.
Hosea	4:3	Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens, and even the fish of the sea are taken away.
Hosea	4:4	Yet let no one contend, and let none accuse, for with you is my contention, O priest.
Hosea	4:5	You shall stumble by day; the prophet also shall stumble with you by night; and I will destroy your mother.
Hosea	4:6	My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.
Hosea	4:7	The more they increased, the more they sinned against me; I will change their glory into shame.
Hosea	4:8	They feed on the sin of my people; they are greedy for their iniquity.
Hosea	4:9	And it shall be like people, like priest; I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their deeds.
Hosea	4:10	They shall eat, but not be satisfied; they shall play the whore, but not multiply, because they have forsaken the LORD to cherish
Hosea	4:11	whoredom, wine, and new wine, which take away the understanding.
Hosea	4:12	My people inquire of a piece of wood, and their walking staff gives them oracles. For a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore.
Hosea	4:13	They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains and burn offerings on the hills, under oak, poplar, and terebinth, because their shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the whore, and your brides commit adultery.
Hosea	4:14	I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for the men themselves go aside with prostitutes and sacrifice with cult prostitutes, and a people without understanding shall come to ruin.
Hosea	4:15	Though you play the whore, O Israel, let not Judah become guilty. Enter not into Gilgal, nor go up to Beth-aven, and swear not, "As the LORD lives."
Hosea	4:16	Like a stubborn heifer, Israel is stubborn; can the LORD now feed them like a lamb in a broad pasture?
Hosea	4:17	Ephraim is joined to idols; leave him alone.
Hosea	4:18	When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring; their rulers dearly love shame.
Hosea	4:19	A wind has wrapped them in its wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
Hosea	5:1	Hear this, O priests! Pay attention, O house of Israel! Give ear, O house of the king! For the judgment is for you; for you have been a snare at Mizpah and a net spread upon Tabor.
Hosea	5:2	And the revolters have gone deep into slaughter, but I will discipline all of them.
Hosea	5:3	I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me; for now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore; Israel is defiled.
Hosea	5:4	Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God. For the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not the LORD.
Hosea	5:5	The pride of Israel testifies to his face; Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in his guilt; Judah also shall stumble with them.
Hosea	5:6	With their flocks and herds they shall go to seek the LORD, but they will not find him; he has withdrawn from them.
Hosea	5:7	They have dealt faithlessly with the LORD; for they have borne alien children. Now the new moon shall devour them with their fields.
Hosea	5:8	Blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah. Sound the alarm at Beth-aven; we follow you, O Benjamin!
Hosea	5:9	Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of punishment; among the tribes of Israel I make known what is sure.
Hosea	5:10	The princes of Judah have become like those who move the landmark; upon them I will pour out my wrath like water.
Hosea	5:11	Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because he was determined to go after filth.
Hosea	5:12	But I am like a moth to Ephraim, and like dry rot to the house of Judah.
Hosea	5:13	When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to the great king. But he is not able to cure you or heal your wound.
Hosea	5:14	For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away; I will carry off, and no one shall rescue.
Hosea	5:15	I will return again to my place, until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face, and in their distress earnestly seek me.
Hosea	6:1	"Come, let us return to the LORD; for he has torn us, that he may heal us; he has struck us down, and he will bind us up.
Hosea	6:2	After two days he will revive us; on the third day he will raise us up, that we may live before him.
Hosea	6:3	Let us know; let us press on to know the LORD; his going out is sure as the dawn; he will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth."
Hosea	6:4	What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud, like the dew that goes early away.
Hosea	6:5	Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light.
Hosea	6:6	For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.
Hosea	6:7	But like Adam they transgressed the covenant; there they dealt faithlessly with me.
Hosea	6:8	Gilead is a city of evildoers, tracked with blood.
Hosea	6:9	As robbers lie in wait for a man, so the priests band together; they murder on the way to Shechem; they commit villainy.
Hosea	6:10	In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing; Ephraim's whoredom is there; Israel is defiled.
Hosea	6:11	For you also, O Judah, a harvest is appointed, when I restore the fortunes of my people.
Hosea	7:1	When I would heal Israel, the iniquity of Ephraim is revealed, and the evil deeds of Samaria; for they deal falsely; the thief breaks in, and the bandits raid outside.
Hosea	7:2	But they do not consider that I remember all their evil. Now their deeds surround them; they are before my face.
Hosea	7:3	By their evil they make the king glad, and the princes by their treachery.
Hosea	7:4	They are all adulterers; they are like a heated oven whose baker ceases to stir the fire, from the kneading of the dough until it is leavened.
Hosea	7:5	On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with mockers.
Hosea	7:6	For with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue; all night their anger smolders; in the morning it blazes like a flaming fire.
Hosea	7:7	All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers. All their kings have fallen, and none of them calls upon me.
Hosea	7:8	Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
Hosea	7:9	Strangers devour his strength, and he knows it not; gray hairs are sprinkled upon him, and he knows it not.
Hosea	7:10	The pride of Israel testifies to his face; yet they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him, for all this.
Hosea	7:11	Ephraim is like a dove, silly and without sense, calling to Egypt, going to Assyria.
Hosea	7:12	As they go, I will spread over them my net; I will bring them down like birds of the heavens; I will discipline them according to the report made to their congregation.
Hosea	7:13	Woe to them, for they have strayed from me! Destruction to them, for they have rebelled against me! I would redeem them, but they speak lies against me.
Hosea	7:14	They do not cry to me from the heart, but they wail upon their beds; for grain and wine they gash themselves; they rebel against me.
Hosea	7:15	Although I trained and strengthened their arms, yet they devise evil against me.
Hosea	7:16	They return, but not upward; they are like a treacherous bow; their princes shall fall by the sword because of the insolence of their tongue. This shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.
Hosea	8:1	Set the trumpet to your lips! One like a vulture is over the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law.
Hosea	8:2	To me they cry, My God, we--Israel--know you.
Hosea	8:3	Israel has spurned the good; the enemy shall pursue him.
Hosea	8:4	They made kings, but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction.
Hosea	8:5	I have spurned your calf, O Samaria. My anger burns against them. How long will they be incapable of innocence?
Hosea	8:6	For it is from Israel; a craftsman made it; it is not God. The calf of Samaria shall be broken to pieces.
Hosea	8:7	For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no heads; it shall yield no flour; if it were to yield, strangers would devour it.
Hosea	8:8	Israel is swallowed up; already they are among the nations as a useless vessel.
Hosea	8:9	For they have gone up to Assyria, a wild donkey wandering alone; Ephraim has hired lovers.
Hosea	8:10	Though they hire allies among the nations, I will soon gather them up. And the king and princes shall soon writhe because of the tribute.
Hosea	8:11	Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning, they have become to him altars for sinning.
Hosea	8:12	Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands, they would be regarded as a strange thing.
Hosea	8:13	As for my sacrificial offerings, they sacrifice meat and eat it, but the LORD does not accept them. Now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins; they shall return to Egypt.
Hosea	8:14	For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; so I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Hosea	9:1	Rejoice not, O Israel! Exult not like the peoples; for you have played the whore, forsaking your God. You have loved a prostitute's wages on all threshing floors.
Hosea	9:2	Threshing floor and wine vat shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail them.
Hosea	9:3	They shall not remain in the land of the LORD, but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
Hosea	9:4	They shall not pour drink offerings of wine to the LORD, and their sacrifices shall not please him. It shall be like mourners' bread to them; all who eat of it shall be defiled; for their bread shall be for their hunger only; it shall not come to the house of the LORD.
Hosea	9:5	What will you do on the day of the appointed festival, and on the day of the feast of the LORD?
Hosea	9:6	For behold, they are going away from destruction; but Egypt shall gather them; Memphis shall bury them. Nettles shall possess their precious things of silver; thorns shall be in their tents.
Hosea	9:7	The days of punishment have come; the days of recompense have come; Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool; the man of the spirit is mad, because of your great iniquity and great hatred.
Hosea	9:8	The prophet is the watchman of Ephraim with my God; yet a fowler's snare is on all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.
Hosea	9:9	They have deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity; he will punish their sins.
Hosea	9:10	Like grapes in the wilderness, I found Israel. Like the first fruit on the fig tree in its first season, I saw your fathers. But they came to Baal-peor and consecrated themselves to the thing of shame, and became detestable like the thing they loved.
Hosea	9:11	Ephraim's glory shall fly away like a bird--no birth, no pregnancy, no conception!
Hosea	9:12	Even if they bring up children, I will bereave them till none is left. Woe to them when I depart from them!
Hosea	9:13	Ephraim, as I have seen, was like a young palm planted in a meadow; but Ephraim must lead his children out to slaughter.
Hosea	9:14	Give them, O LORD--what will you give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
Hosea	9:15	Every evil of theirs is in Gilgal; there I began to hate them. Because of the wickedness of their deeds I will drive them out of my house. I will love them no more; all their princes are rebels.
Hosea	9:16	Ephraim is stricken; their root is dried up; they shall bear no fruit. Even though they give birth, I will put their beloved children to death.
Hosea	9:17	My God will reject them because they have not listened to him; they shall be wanderers among the nations.
Hosea	10:1	Israel is a luxuriant vine that yields its fruit. The more his fruit increased, the more altars he built; as his country improved, he improved his pillars.
Hosea	10:2	Their heart is false; now they must bear their guilt. The LORD will break down their altars and destroy their pillars.
Hosea	10:3	For now they will say: "We have no king, for we do not fear the LORD; and a king--what could he do for us?"
Hosea	10:4	They utter mere words; with empty oaths they make covenants; so judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of the field.
Hosea	10:5	The inhabitants of Samaria tremble for the calf of Beth-aven. Its people mourn for it, and so do its idolatrous priests--those who rejoiced over it and over its glory--for it has departed from them.
Hosea	10:6	The thing itself shall be carried to Assyria as tribute to the great king. Ephraim shall be put to shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his idol.
Hosea	10:7	Samaria's king shall perish like a twig on the face of the waters.
Hosea	10:8	The high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed. Thorn and thistle shall grow up on their altars, and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us, and to the hills, Fall on us.
Hosea	10:9	From the days of Gibeah, you have sinned, O Israel; there they have continued. Shall not the war against the unjust overtake them in Gibeah?
Hosea	10:10	When I please, I will discipline them, and nations shall be gathered against them when they are bound up for their double iniquity.
Hosea	10:11	Ephraim was a trained calf that loved to thresh, and I spared her fair neck; but I will put Ephraim to the yoke; Judah must plow; Jacob must harrow for himself.
Hosea	10:12	Sow for yourselves righteousness; reap steadfast love; break up your fallow ground, for it is the time to seek the LORD, that he may come and rain righteousness upon you.
Hosea	10:13	You have plowed iniquity; you have reaped injustice; you have eaten the fruit of lies. Because you have trusted in your own way and in the multitude of your warriors,
Hosea	10:14	therefore the tumult of war shall arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel on the day of battle; mothers were dashed in pieces with their children.
Hosea	10:15	Thus it shall be done to you, O Bethel, because of your great evil. At dawn the king of Israel shall be utterly cut off.
Hosea	11:1	When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.
Hosea	11:2	The more they were called, the more they went away; they kept sacrificing to the Baals and burning offerings to idols.
Hosea	11:3	Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk; I took them up by their arms, but they did not know that I healed them.
Hosea	11:4	I led them with cords of kindness, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the yoke on their jaws, and I bent down to them and fed them.
Hosea	11:5	They shall not return to the land of Egypt, but Assyria shall be their king, because they have refused to return to me.
Hosea	11:6	The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because of their own counsels.
Hosea	11:7	My people are bent on turning away from me, and though they call out to the Most High, he shall not raise them up at all.
Hosea	11:8	How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like Admah? How can I treat you like Zeboiim? My heart recoils within me; my compassion grows warm and tender.
Hosea	11:9	I will not execute my burning anger; I will not again destroy Ephraim; for I am God and not a man, the Holy One in your midst, and I will not come in wrath.
Hosea	11:10	They shall go after the LORD; he will roar like a lion; when he roars, his children shall come trembling from the west;
Hosea	11:11	they shall come trembling like birds from Egypt, and like doves from the land of Assyria, and I will return them to their homes, declares the LORD.
Hosea	11:12	Ephraim has surrounded me with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit, but Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One.
Hosea	12:1	Ephraim feeds on the wind and pursues the east wind all day long; they multiply falsehood and violence; they make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried to Egypt.
Hosea	12:2	The LORD has an indictment against Judah and will punish Jacob according to his ways; he will repay him according to his deeds.
Hosea	12:3	In the womb he took his brother by the heel, and in his manhood he strove with God.
Hosea	12:4	He strove with the angel and prevailed; he wept and sought his favor. He met God at Bethel, and there God spoke with us--
Hosea	12:5	the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD is his memorial name:
Hosea	12:6	"So you, by the help of your God, return, hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your God."
Hosea	12:7	A merchant, in whose hands are false balances, he loves to oppress.
Hosea	12:8	Ephraim has said, "Ah, but I am rich; I have found wealth for myself; in all my labors they cannot find in me iniquity or sin."
Hosea	12:9	I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; I will again make you dwell in tents, as in the days of the appointed feast.
Hosea	12:10	I spoke to the prophets; it was I who multiplied visions, and through the prophets gave parables.
Hosea	12:11	If there is iniquity in Gilead, they shall surely come to nothing: in Gilgal they sacrifice bulls; their altars also are like stone heaps on the furrows of the field.
Hosea	12:12	Jacob fled to the land of Aram; there Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he guarded sheep.
Hosea	12:13	By a prophet the LORD brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded.
Hosea	12:14	Ephraim has given bitter provocation; so his Lord will leave his bloodguilt on him and will repay him for his disgraceful deeds.
Hosea	13:1	When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling; he was exalted in Israel, but he incurred guilt through Baal and died.
Hosea	13:2	And now they sin more and more, and make for themselves metal images, idols skillfully made of their silver, all of them the work of craftsmen. It is said of them, "Those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves!"
Hosea	13:3	Therefore they shall be like the morning mist or like the dew that goes early away, like the chaff that swirls from the threshing floor or like smoke from a window.
Hosea	13:4	But I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; you know no God but me, and besides me there is no savior.
Hosea	13:5	It was I who knew you in the wilderness, in the land of drought;
Hosea	13:6	but when they had grazed, they became full, they were filled, and their heart was lifted up; therefore they forgot me.
Hosea	13:7	So I am to them like a lion; like a leopard I will lurk beside the way.
Hosea	13:8	I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs; I will tear open their breast, and there I will devour them like a lion, as a wild beast would rip them open.
Hosea	13:9	He destroys you, O Israel, for you are against me, against your helper.
Hosea	13:10	Where now is your king, to save you in all your cities? Where are all your rulers--those of whom you said, "Give me a king and princes"?
Hosea	13:11	I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him away in my wrath.
Hosea	13:12	The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is kept in store.
Hosea	13:13	The pangs of childbirth come for him, but he is an unwise son, for at the right time he does not present himself at the opening of the womb.
Hosea	13:14	Shall I ransom them from the power of Sheol? Shall I redeem them from Death? O Death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? Compassion is hidden from my eyes.
Hosea	13:15	Though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the LORD, shall come, rising from the wilderness, and his fountain shall dry up; his spring shall be parched; it shall strip his treasury of every precious thing.
Hosea	13:16	Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God; they shall fall by the sword; their little ones shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women ripped open.
Hosea	14:1	Return, O Israel, to the LORD your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity.
Hosea	14:2	Take with you words and return to the LORD; say to him, "Take away all iniquity; accept what is good, and we will pay with bulls the vows of our lips.
Hosea	14:3	Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride on horses; and we will say no more, 'Our God,' to the work of our hands. In you the orphan finds mercy."
Hosea	14:4	I will heal their apostasy; I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them.
Hosea	14:5	I will be like the dew to Israel; he shall blossom like the lily; he shall take root like the trees of Lebanon;
Hosea	14:6	his shoots shall spread out; his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon.
Hosea	14:7	They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow; they shall flourish like the grain; they shall blossom like the vine; their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon.
Hosea	14:8	O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen cypress; from me comes your fruit.
Hosea	14:9	Whoever is wise, let him understand these things; whoever is discerning, let him know them; for the ways of the LORD are right, and the upright walk in them, but transgressors stumble in them.
Joel	1:1	The word of the LORD that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel:
Joel	1:2	Hear this, you elders; give ear, all inhabitants of the land! Has such a thing happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
Joel	1:3	Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children to another generation.
Joel	1:4	What the cutting locust left, the swarming locust has eaten. What the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten, and what the hopping locust left, the destroying locust has eaten.
Joel	1:5	Awake, you drunkards, and weep, and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine, for it is cut off from your mouth.
Joel	1:6	For a nation has come up against my land, powerful and beyond number; its teeth are lions' teeth, and it has the fangs of a lioness.
Joel	1:7	It has laid waste my vine and splintered my fig tree; it has stripped off their bark and thrown it down; their branches are made white.
Joel	1:8	Lament like a virgin wearing sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth.
Joel	1:9	The grain offering and the drink offering are cut off from the house of the LORD. The priests mourn, the ministers of the LORD.
Joel	1:10	The fields are destroyed, the ground mourns, because the grain is destroyed, the wine dries up, the oil languishes.
Joel	1:11	Be ashamed, O tillers of the soil; wail, O vinedressers, for the wheat and the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished.
Joel	1:12	The vine dries up; the fig tree languishes. Pomegranate, palm, and apple, all the trees of the field are dried up, and gladness dries up from the children of man.
Joel	1:13	Put on sackcloth and lament, O priests; wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in, pass the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God! Because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God.
Joel	1:14	Consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the LORD your God, and cry out to the LORD.
Joel	1:15	Alas for the day! For the day of the LORD is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes.
Joel	1:16	Is not the food cut off before our eyes, joy and gladness from the house of our God?
Joel	1:17	The seed shrivels under the clods; the storehouses are desolate; the granaries are torn down because the grain has dried up.
Joel	1:18	How the beasts groan! The herds of cattle are perplexed because there is no pasture for them; even the flocks of sheep suffer.
Joel	1:19	To you, O LORD, I call. For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and flame has burned all the trees of the field.
Joel	1:20	Even the beasts of the field pant for you because the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.
Joel	2:1	Blow a trumpet in Zion; sound an alarm on my holy mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the LORD is coming; it is near,
Joel	2:2	a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness! Like blackness there is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people; their like has never been before, nor will be again after them through the years of all generations.
Joel	2:3	Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the garden of Eden before them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them.
Joel	2:4	Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses they run.
Joel	2:5	As with the rumbling of chariots, they leap on the tops of the mountains, like the crackling of a flame of fire devouring the stubble, like a powerful army drawn up for battle.
Joel	2:6	Before them peoples are in anguish; all faces grow pale.
Joel	2:7	Like warriors they charge; like soldiers they scale the wall. They march each on his way; they do not swerve from their paths.
Joel	2:8	They do not jostle one another; each marches in his path; they burst through the weapons and are not halted.
Joel	2:9	They leap upon the city, they run upon the walls, they climb up into the houses, they enter through the windows like a thief.
Joel	2:10	The earth quakes before them; the heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
Joel	2:11	The LORD utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great; he who executes his word is powerful. For the day of the LORD is great and very awesome; who can endure it?
Joel	2:12	"Yet even now," declares the LORD, "return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning;
Joel	2:13	and rend your hearts and not your garments." Return to the LORD, your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he relents over disaster.
Joel	2:14	Who knows whether he will not turn and relent, and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the LORD your God?
Joel	2:15	Blow the trumpet in Zion; consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly;
Joel	2:16	gather the people. Consecrate the congregation; assemble the elders; gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room, and the bride her chamber.
Joel	2:17	Between the vestibule and the altar let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep and say, "Spare your people, O LORD, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why should they say among the peoples, 'Where is their God?'"
Joel	2:18	Then the LORD became jealous for his land and had pity on his people.
Joel	2:19	The LORD answered and said to his people, "Behold, I am sending to you grain, wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.
Joel	2:20	"I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate land, his vanguard into the eastern sea, and his rear guard into the western sea; the stench and foul smell of him will rise, for he has done great things.
Joel	2:21	"Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice, for the LORD has done great things!
Joel	2:22	Fear not, you beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness are green; the tree bears its fruit; the fig tree and vine give their full yield.
Joel	2:23	"Be glad, O children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD your God, for he has given the early rain for your vindication; he has poured down for you abundant rain, the early and the latter rain, as before.
Joel	2:24	"The threshing floors shall be full of grain; the vats shall overflow with wine and oil.
Joel	2:25	I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten, the hopper, the destroyer, and the cutter, my great army, which I sent among you.
Joel	2:26	"You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the name of the LORD your God, who has dealt wondrously with you. And my people shall never again be put to shame.
Joel	2:27	You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the LORD your God and there is none else. And my people shall never again be put to shame.
Joel	2:28	"And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions.
Joel	2:29	Even on the male and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit.
Joel	2:30	"And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke.
Joel	2:31	The sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes.
Joel	2:32	And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the LORD shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the LORD has said, and among the survivors shall be those whom the LORD calls.
Joel	3:1	"For behold, in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
Joel	3:2	I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations and have divided up my land,
Joel	3:3	and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it.
Joel	3:4	"What are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you paying me back for something? If you are paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily.
Joel	3:5	For you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples.
Joel	3:6	You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their own border.
Joel	3:7	Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own head.
Joel	3:8	I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far away, for the LORD has spoken."
Joel	3:9	Proclaim this among the nations: Consecrate for war; stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near; let them come up.
Joel	3:10	Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, "I am a warrior."
Joel	3:11	Hasten and come, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors, O LORD.
Joel	3:12	Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations.
Joel	3:13	Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the winepress is full. The vats overflow, for their evil is great.
Joel	3:14	Multitudes, multitudes, in the valley of decision! For the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision.
Joel	3:15	The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
Joel	3:16	The LORD roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth quake. But the LORD is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel.
Joel	3:17	"So you shall know that I am the LORD your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it.
Joel	3:18	"And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the streambeds of Judah shall flow with water; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the LORD and water the Valley of Shittim.
Joel	3:19	"Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land.
Joel	3:20	But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations.
Joel	3:21	I will avenge their blood, blood I have not avenged, for the LORD dwells in Zion."
Amos	1:1	The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
Amos	1:2	And he said: "The LORD roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem; the pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Carmel withers."
Amos	1:3	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with threshing sledges of iron.
Amos	1:4	So I will send a fire upon the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-hadad.
Amos	1:5	I will break the gate-bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitants from the Valley of Aven, and him who holds the scepter from Beth-eden; and the people of Syria shall go into exile to Kir," says the LORD.
Amos	1:6	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they carried into exile a whole people to deliver them up to Edom.
Amos	1:7	So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Amos	1:8	I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish," says the Lord GOD.
Amos	1:9	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they delivered up a whole people to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood.
Amos	1:10	So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds."
Amos	1:11	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because he pursued his brother with the sword and cast off all pity, and his anger tore perpetually, and he kept his wrath forever.
Amos	1:12	So I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the strongholds of Bozrah."
Amos	1:13	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they have ripped open pregnant women in Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.
Amos	1:14	So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour her strongholds, with shouting on the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;
Amos	1:15	and their king shall go into exile, he and his princes together," says the LORD.
Amos	2:1	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because he burned to lime the bones of the king of Edom.
Amos	2:2	So I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the strongholds of Kerioth, and Moab shall die amid uproar, amid shouting and the sound of the trumpet;
Amos	2:3	I will cut off the ruler from its midst, and will kill all its princes with him," says the LORD.
Amos	2:4	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they have rejected the law of the LORD, and have not kept his statutes, but their lies have led them astray, those after which their fathers walked.
Amos	2:5	So I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem."
Amos	2:6	Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they sell the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals--
Amos	2:7	those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth and turn aside the way of the afflicted; a man and his father go in to the same girl, so that my holy name is profaned;
Amos	2:8	they lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in pledge, and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
Amos	2:9	"Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars and who was as strong as the oaks; I destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath.
Amos	2:10	Also it was I who brought you up out of the land of Egypt and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
Amos	2:11	And I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not indeed so, O people of Israel?" declares the LORD.
Amos	2:12	"But you made the Nazirites drink wine, and commanded the prophets, saying, 'You shall not prophesy.'
Amos	2:13	"Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down.
Amos	2:14	Flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not retain his strength, nor shall the mighty save his life;
Amos	2:15	he who handles the bow shall not stand, and he who is swift of foot shall not save himself, nor shall he who rides the horse save his life;
Amos	2:16	and he who is stout of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day," declares the LORD.
Amos	3:1	Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt:
Amos	3:2	"You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.
Amos	3:3	"Do two walk together, unless they have agreed to meet?
Amos	3:4	Does a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den, if he has taken nothing?
Amos	3:5	Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth, when there is no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the ground, when it has taken nothing?
Amos	3:6	Is a trumpet blown in a city, and the people are not afraid? Does disaster come to a city, unless the LORD has done it?
Amos	3:7	"For the Lord GOD does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets.
Amos	3:8	The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord GOD has spoken; who can but prophesy?"
Amos	3:9	Proclaim to the strongholds in Ashdod and to the strongholds in the land of Egypt, and say, "Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria, and see the great tumults within her, and the oppressed in her midst."
Amos	3:10	"They do not know how to do right," declares the LORD, "those who store up violence and robbery in their strongholds."
Amos	3:11	Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "An adversary shall surround the land and bring down your defenses from you, and your strongholds shall be plundered."
Amos	3:12	Thus says the LORD: "As the shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the people of Israel who dwell in Samaria be rescued, with the corner of a couch and part of a bed.
Amos	3:13	"Hear, and testify against the house of Jacob," declares the Lord GOD, the God of hosts,
Amos	3:14	"that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions, I will punish the altars of Bethel, and the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground.
Amos	3:15	I will strike the winter house along with the summer house, and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall come to an end," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:1	"Hear this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who say to your husbands, 'Bring, that we may drink!'
Amos	4:2	The Lord GOD has sworn by his holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you, when they shall take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fishhooks.
Amos	4:3	And you shall go out through the breaches, each one straight ahead; and you shall be cast out into Harmon," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:4	"Come to Bethel, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days;
Amos	4:5	offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill offerings, publish them; for so you love to do, O people of Israel!" declares the Lord GOD.
Amos	4:6	"I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places, yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:7	"I also withheld the rain from you when there were yet three months to the harvest; I would send rain on one city, and send no rain on another city; one field would have rain, and the field on which it did not rain would wither;
Amos	4:8	so two or three cities would wander to another city to drink water, and would not be satisfied; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:9	"I struck you with blight and mildew; your many gardens and your vineyards, your fig trees and your olive trees the locust devoured; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:10	"I sent among you a pestilence after the manner of Egypt; I killed your young men with the sword, and carried away your horses, and I made the stench of your camp go up into your nostrils; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:11	"I overthrew some of you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were as a brand plucked out of the burning; yet you did not return to me," declares the LORD.
Amos	4:12	"Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel!"
Amos	4:13	For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought, who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the heights of the earth--the LORD, the God of hosts, is his name!
Amos	5:1	Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel:
Amos	5:2	"Fallen, no more to rise, is the virgin Israel; forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up."
Amos	5:3	For thus says the Lord GOD: "The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel."
Amos	5:4	For thus says the LORD to the house of Israel: "Seek me and live;
Amos	5:5	but do not seek Bethel, and do not enter into Gilgal or cross over to Beersheba; for Gilgal shall surely go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing."
Amos	5:6	Seek the LORD and live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, with none to quench it for Bethel,
Amos	5:7	O you who turn justice to wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth!
Amos	5:8	He who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns deep darkness into the morning and darkens the day into night, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth, the LORD is his name;
Amos	5:9	who makes destruction flash forth against the strong, so that destruction comes upon the fortress.
Amos	5:10	They hate him who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks the truth.
Amos	5:11	Therefore because you trample on the poor and you exact taxes of grain from him, you have built houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them; you have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine.
Amos	5:12	For I know how many are your transgressions and how great are your sins--you who afflict the righteous, who take a bribe, and turn aside the needy in the gate.
Amos	5:13	Therefore he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time.
Amos	5:14	Seek good, and not evil, that you may live; and so the LORD, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said.
Amos	5:15	Hate evil, and love good, and establish justice in the gate; it may be that the LORD, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.
Amos	5:16	Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the Lord: "In all the squares there shall be wailing, and in all the streets they shall say, 'Alas! Alas!' They shall call the farmers to mourning and to wailing those who are skilled in lamentation,
Amos	5:17	and in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through your midst," says the LORD.
Amos	5:18	Woe to you who desire the day of the LORD! Why would you have the day of the LORD? It is darkness, and not light,
Amos	5:19	as if a man fled from a lion, and a bear met him, or went into the house and leaned his hand against the wall, and a serpent bit him.
Amos	5:20	Is not the day of the LORD darkness, and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it?
Amos	5:21	"I hate, I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.
Amos	5:22	Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them; and the peace offerings of your fattened animals, I will not look upon them.
Amos	5:23	Take away from me the noise of your songs; to the melody of your harps I will not listen.
Amos	5:24	But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.
Amos	5:25	"Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
Amos	5:26	You shall take up Sikkuth your king, and Kiyyun your star-god--your images that you made for yourselves,
Amos	5:27	and I will send you into exile beyond Damascus," says the LORD, whose name is the God of hosts.
Amos	6:1	"Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, and to those who feel secure on the mountain of Samaria, the notable men of the first of the nations, to whom the house of Israel comes!
Amos	6:2	Pass over to Calneh, and see, and from there go to Hamath the great; then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory,
Amos	6:3	O you who put far away the day of disaster and bring near the seat of violence?
Amos	6:4	"Woe to those who lie on beds of ivory and stretch themselves out on their couches, and eat lambs from the flock and calves from the midst of the stall,
Amos	6:5	who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp and like David invent for themselves instruments of music,
Amos	6:6	who drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph!
Amos	6:7	Therefore they shall now be the first of those who go into exile, and the revelry of those who stretch themselves out shall pass away."
Amos	6:8	The Lord GOD has sworn by himself, declares the LORD, the God of hosts: "I abhor the pride of Jacob and hate his strongholds, and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it."
Amos	6:9	And if ten men remain in one house, they shall die.
Amos	6:10	And when one's relative, the one who anoints him for burial, shall take him up to bring the bones out of the house, and shall say to him who is in the innermost parts of the house, "Is there still anyone with you?" he shall say, "No"; and he shall say, "Silence! We must not mention the name of the LORD."
Amos	6:11	For behold, the LORD commands, and the great house shall be struck down into fragments, and the little house into bits.
Amos	6:12	Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood--
Amos	6:13	you who rejoice in Lo-debar, who say, "Have we not by our own strength captured Karnaim for ourselves?"
Amos	6:14	"For behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel," declares the LORD, the God of hosts; "and they shall oppress you from Lebo-hamath to the Brook of the Arabah."
Amos	7:1	This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, he was forming locusts when the latter growth was just beginning to sprout, and behold, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
Amos	7:2	When they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said, "O Lord GOD, please forgive! How can Jacob stand? He is so small!"
Amos	7:3	The LORD relented concerning this; "It shall not be," said the LORD.
Amos	7:4	This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, the Lord GOD was calling for a judgment by fire, and it devoured the great deep and was eating up the land.
Amos	7:5	Then I said, "O Lord GOD, please cease! How can Jacob stand? He is so small!"
Amos	7:6	The LORD relented concerning this; "This also shall not be," said the Lord GOD.
Amos	7:7	This is what he showed me: behold, the Lord was standing beside a wall built with a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand.
Amos	7:8	And the LORD said to me, "Amos, what do you see?" And I said, "A plumb line." Then the Lord said, "Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel; I will never again pass by them;
Amos	7:9	the high places of Isaac shall be made desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste, and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword."
Amos	7:10	Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, "Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words.
Amos	7:11	For thus Amos has said, "'Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel must go into exile away from his land.'"
Amos	7:12	And Amaziah said to Amos, "O seer, go, flee away to the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there,
Amos	7:13	but never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom."
Amos	7:14	Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, "I was no prophet, nor a prophet's son, but I was a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs.
Amos	7:15	But the LORD took me from following the flock, and the LORD said to me, 'Go, prophesy to my people Israel.'
Amos	7:16	Now therefore hear the word of the LORD. "You say, 'Do not prophesy against Israel, and do not preach against the house of Isaac.'
Amos	7:17	Therefore Thus says the LORD: "'Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided up with a measuring line; you yourself shall die in an unclean land, and Israel shall surely go into exile away from its land.'"
Amos	8:1	This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit.
Amos	8:2	And he said, "Amos, what do you see?" And I said, "A basket of summer fruit." Then the LORD said to me, "The end has come upon my people Israel; I will never again pass by them.
Amos	8:3	The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day," declares the Lord GOD. "So many dead bodies!They are thrown everywhere!Silence!"
Amos	8:4	Hear this, you who trample on the needy and bring the poor of the land to an end,
Amos	8:5	saying, "When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may offer wheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances,
Amos	8:6	that we may buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals and sell the chaff of the wheat?"
Amos	8:7	The LORD has sworn by the pride of Jacob: "Surely I will never forget any of their deeds.
Amos	8:8	Shall not the land tremble on this account, and everyone mourn who dwells in it, and all of it rise like the Nile, and be tossed about and sink again, like the Nile of Egypt?"
Amos	8:9	"And on that day," declares the Lord GOD, "I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth in broad daylight.
Amos	8:10	I will turn your feasts into mourning and all your songs into lamentation; I will bring sackcloth on every waist and baldness on every head; I will make it like the mourning for an only son and the end of it like a bitter day.
Amos	8:11	"Behold, the days are coming," declares the Lord GOD, "when I will send a famine on the land--not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the LORD.
Amos	8:12	They shall wander from sea to sea, and from north to east; they shall run to and fro, to seek the word of the LORD, but they shall not find it.
Amos	8:13	"In that day the lovely virgins and the young men shall faint for thirst.
Amos	8:14	Those who swear by the Guilt of Samaria, and say, 'As your god lives, O Dan,' and, 'As the Way of Beersheba lives,' they shall fall, and never rise again."
Amos	9:1	I saw the LORD standing beside the altar, And he said: "Strike the capitals until the thresholds shake, and shatter them on the heads of all the people; and those who are left of them I will kill with the sword; not one of them shall flee away; not one of them shall escape.
Amos	9:2	"If they dig into Sheol, from there shall my hand take them; if they climb up to heaven, from there I will bring them down.
Amos	9:3	If they hide themselves on the top of Carmel, from there I will search them out and take them; and if they hide from my sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it shall bite them.
Amos	9:4	And if they go into captivity before their enemies, there I will command the sword, and it shall kill them; and I will fix my eyes upon them for evil and not for good."
Amos	9:5	The Lord GOD of hosts, he who touches the earth and it melts, and all who dwell in it mourn, and all of it rises like the Nile, and sinks again, like the Nile of Egypt;
Amos	9:6	who builds his upper chambers in the heavens and founds his vault upon the earth; who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth--the LORD is his name.
Amos	9:7	"Are you not like the Cushites to me, O people of Israel?" declares the LORD. "Did I not bring up Israel from the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor and the Syrians from Kir?
Amos	9:8	Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from the surface of the ground, except that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob," declares the LORD.
Amos	9:9	"For behold, I will command, and shake the house of Israel among all the nations as one shakes with a sieve, but no pebble shall fall to the earth.
Amos	9:10	All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, 'Disaster shall not overtake or meet us.'
Amos	9:11	"In that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen and repair its breaches, and raise up its ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old,
Amos	9:12	that they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations who are called by my name," declares the LORD who does this.
Amos	9:13	"Behold, the days are coming," declares the LORD, "when the plowman shall overtake the reaper and the treader of grapes him who sows the seed; the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it.
Amos	9:14	I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit.
Amos	9:15	I will plant them on their land, and they shall never again be uprooted out of the land that I have given them," says the LORD your God.
Obadiah	1:1	The vision of Obadiah. Thus says the Lord God concerning Edom:We have heard a report from the Lord,and a messenger has been sent among the nations: "Rise up! Let us rise against her for battle!"
Obadiah	1:2	Behold, I will make you small among the nations; you shall be utterly despised.
Obadiah	1:3	The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, "Who will bring me down to the ground?"
Obadiah	1:4	Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the LORD.
Obadiah	1:5	If thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night--how you have been destroyed!--would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings?
Obadiah	1:6	How Esau has been pillaged, his treasures sought out!
Obadiah	1:7	All your allies have driven you to your border; those at peace with you have deceived you; they have prevailed against you; those who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you--you have no understanding.
Obadiah	1:8	Will I not on that day, declares the LORD, destroy the wise men out of Edom, and understanding out of Mount Esau?
Obadiah	1:9	And your mighty men shall be dismayed, O Teman, so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter.
Obadiah	1:10	Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever.
Obadiah	1:11	On the day that you stood aloof, on the day that strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them.
Obadiah	1:12	But do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune; do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin; do not boast in the day of distress.
Obadiah	1:13	Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity; do not gloat over his disaster in the day of his calamity; do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity.
Obadiah	1:14	Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives; do not hand over his survivors in the day of distress.
Obadiah	1:15	For the day of the LORD is near upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you; your deeds shall return on your own head.
Obadiah	1:16	For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually; they shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been.
Obadiah	1:17	But in Mount Zion there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy, and the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions.
Obadiah	1:18	The house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble; they shall burn them and consume them, and there shall be no survivor for the house of Esau, for the LORD has spoken.
Obadiah	1:19	Those of the Negeb shall possess Mount Esau, and those of the Shephelah shall possess the land of the Philistines; they shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.
Obadiah	1:20	The exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad shall possess the cities of the Negeb.
Obadiah	1:21	Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule Mount Esau, and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.
Jonah	1:1	Now the word of the LORD came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
Jonah	1:2	"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me."
Jonah	1:3	But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the LORD. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went on board, to go with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the LORD.
Jonah	1:4	But the LORD hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up.
Jonah	1:5	Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his god. And they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had lain down and was fast asleep.
Jonah	1:6	So the captain came and said to him, "What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your god! Perhaps the god will give a thought to us, that we may not perish."
Jonah	1:7	And they said to one another, "Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us." So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
Jonah	1:8	Then they said to him, "Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you?"
Jonah	1:9	And he said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the LORD, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land."
Jonah	1:10	Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, "What is this that you have done!" For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them.
Jonah	1:11	Then they said to him, "What shall we do to you, that the sea may quiet down for us?" For the sea grew more and more tempestuous.
Jonah	1:12	He said to them, "Pick me up and hurl me into the sea; then the sea will quiet down for you, for I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you."
Jonah	1:13	Nevertheless, the men rowed hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them.
Jonah	1:14	Therefore they called out to the LORD, "O LORD, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O LORD, have done as it pleased you."
Jonah	1:15	So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging.
Jonah	1:16	Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the LORD and made vows.
Jonah	1:17	And the LORD appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.
Jonah	2:1	Then Jonah prayed to the LORD his God from the belly of the fish,
Jonah	2:2	saying, "I called out to the LORD, out of my distress, and he answered me; out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice.
Jonah	2:3	For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me; all your waves and your billows passed over me.
Jonah	2:4	Then I said, 'I am driven away from your sight; Yet I shall again look upon your holy temple.'
Jonah	2:5	The waters closed in over me to take my life; the deep surrounded me; weeds were wrapped about my head
Jonah	2:6	at the roots of the mountains. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever; yet you brought up my life from the pit, O LORD my God.
Jonah	2:7	When my life was fainting away, I remembered the LORD, and my prayer came to you, into your holy temple.
Jonah	2:8	Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love.
Jonah	2:9	But I with the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you; what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the LORD!"
Jonah	2:10	And the LORD spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land.
Jonah	3:1	Then the word of the LORD came to Jonah the second time, saying,
Jonah	3:2	"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you."
Jonah	3:3	So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the LORD. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth.
Jonah	3:4	Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey. And he called out, "Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown!"
Jonah	3:5	And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them.
Jonah	3:6	The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.
Jonah	3:7	And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh, "By the decree of the king and his nobles: Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water,
Jonah	3:8	but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands.
Jonah	3:9	Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish."
Jonah	3:10	When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it.
Jonah	4:1	But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry.
Jonah	4:2	And he prayed to the LORD and said, "O LORD, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish; for I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster.
Jonah	4:3	Therefore now, O LORD, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live."
Jonah	4:4	And the LORD said, "Do you do well to be angry?"
Jonah	4:5	Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade, till he should see what would become of the city.
Jonah	4:6	Now the LORD God appointed a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant.
Jonah	4:7	But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant, so that it withered.
Jonah	4:8	When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint. And he asked that he might die and said, "It is better for me to die than to live."
Jonah	4:9	But God said to Jonah, "Do you do well to be angry for the plant?" And he said, "Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die."
Jonah	4:10	And the LORD said, "You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night.
Jonah	4:11	And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle?"
Micah	1:1	The word of the LORD that came to Micah of Moresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.
Micah	1:2	Hear, you peoples, all of you; pay attention, O earth, and all that is in it, and let the Lord GOD be a witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple.
Micah	1:3	For behold, the LORD is coming out of his place, and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth.
Micah	1:4	And the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys will split open, like wax before the fire, like waters poured down a steep place.
Micah	1:5	All this is for the transgression of Jacob and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?
Micah	1:6	Therefore I will make Samaria a heap in the open country, a place for planting vineyards, and I will pour down her stones into the valley and uncover her foundations.
Micah	1:7	All her carved images shall be beaten to pieces, all her wages shall be burned with fire, and all her idols I will lay waste, for from the fee of a prostitute she gathered them, and to the fee of a prostitute they shall return.
Micah	1:8	For this I will lament and wail; I will go stripped and naked; I will make lamentation like the jackals, and mourning like the ostriches.
Micah	1:9	For her wound is incurable, and it has come to Judah; it has reached to the gate of my people, to Jerusalem.
Micah	1:10	Tell it not in Gath; weep not at all; in Beth-le-aphrah roll yourselves in the dust.
Micah	1:11	Pass on your way, inhabitants of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame; the inhabitants of Zaanan do not come out; the lamentation of Beth-ezel shall take away from you its standing place.
Micah	1:12	For the inhabitants of Maroth wait anxiously for good, because disaster has come down from the LORD to the gate of Jerusalem.
Micah	1:13	Harness the steeds to the chariots, inhabitants of Lachish; it was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion, for in you were found the transgressions of Israel.
Micah	1:14	Therefore you shall give parting gifts to Moresheth-gath; the houses of Achzib shall be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.
Micah	1:15	I will again bring a conqueror to you, inhabitants of Mareshah; the glory of Israel shall come to Adullam.
Micah	1:16	Make yourselves bald and cut off your hair, for the children of your delight; make yourselves as bald as the eagle, for they shall go from you into exile.
Micah	2:1	Woe to those who devise wickedness and work evil on their beds! When the morning dawns, they perform it, because it is in the power of their hand.
Micah	2:2	They covet fields and seize them, and houses, and take them away; they oppress a man and his house, a man and his inheritance.
Micah	2:3	Therefore thus says the LORD: behold, against this family I am devising disaster, from which you cannot remove your necks, and you shall not walk haughtily, for it will be a time of disaster.
Micah	2:4	In that day they shall take up a taunt song against you and moan bitterly, and say, "We are utterly ruined; he changes the portion of my people; how he removes it from me! To an apostate he allots our fields."
Micah	2:5	Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot in the assembly of the LORD.
Micah	2:6	"Do not preach"--thus they preach--"one should not preach of such things; disgrace will not overtake us."
Micah	2:7	Should this be said, O house of Jacob? Has the LORD grown impatient? Are these his deeds? Do not my words do good to him who walks uprightly?
Micah	2:8	But lately my people have risen up as an enemy; you strip the rich robe from those who pass by trustingly with no thought of war.
Micah	2:9	The women of my people you drive out from their delightful houses; from their young children you take away my splendor forever.
Micah	2:10	Arise and go, for this is no place to rest, because of uncleanness that destroys with a grievous destruction.
Micah	2:11	If a man should go about and utter wind and lies, saying, "I will preach to you of wine and strong drink," he would be the preacher for this people!
Micah	2:12	I will surely assemble all of you, O Jacob; I will gather the remnant of Israel; I will set them together like sheep in a fold, like a flock in its pasture, a noisy multitude of men.
Micah	2:13	He who opens the breach goes up before them; they break through and pass the gate, going out by it. Their king passes on before them, the LORD at their head.
Micah	3:1	And I said: Hear, you heads of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel! Is it not for you to know justice?--
Micah	3:2	you who hate the good and love the evil, who tear the skin from off my people and their flesh from off their bones,
Micah	3:3	who eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones in pieces and chop them up like meat in a pot, like flesh in a cauldron.
Micah	3:4	Then they will cry to the LORD, but he will not answer them; he will hide his face from them at that time, because they have made their deeds evil.
Micah	3:5	Thus says the LORD concerning the prophets who lead my people astray, who cry "Peace" when they have something to eat, but declare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths.
Micah	3:6	Therefore it shall be night to you, without vision, and darkness to you, without divination. The sun shall go down on the prophets, and the day shall be black over them;
Micah	3:7	the seers shall be disgraced, and the diviners put to shame; they shall all cover their lips, for there is no answer from God.
Micah	3:8	But as for me, I am filled with power, with the Spirit of the LORD, and with justice and might, to declare to Jacob his transgression and to Israel his sin.
Micah	3:9	Hear this, you heads of the house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel, who detest justice and make crooked all that is straight,
Micah	3:10	who build Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity.
Micah	3:11	Its heads give judgment for a bribe; its priests teach for a price; its prophets practice divination for money; yet they lean on the LORD and say, "Is not the LORD in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon us."
Micah	3:12	Therefore because of you Zion shall be plowed as a field; Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height.
Micah	4:1	It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall flow to it,
Micah	4:2	and many nations shall come, and say: "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths." For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Micah	4:3	He shall judge between many peoples, and shall decide for strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore;
Micah	4:4	but they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the LORD of hosts has spoken.
Micah	4:5	For all the peoples walk each in the name of its god, but we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever.
Micah	4:6	In that day, declares the LORD, I will assemble the lame and gather those who have been driven away and those whom I have afflicted;
Micah	4:7	and the lame I will make the remnant, and those who were cast off, a strong nation; and the LORD will reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore.
Micah	4:8	And you, O tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, the former dominion shall come, kingship for the daughter of Jerusalem.
Micah	4:9	Now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished, that pain seized you like a woman in labor?
Micah	4:10	Writhe and groan, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor, for now you shall go out from the city and dwell in the open country; you shall go to Babylon. There you shall be rescued; there the LORD will redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
Micah	4:11	Now many nations are assembled against you, saying, "Let her be defiled, and let our eyes gaze upon Zion."
Micah	4:12	But they do not know the thoughts of the LORD; they do not understand his plan, that he has gathered them as sheaves to the threshing floor.
Micah	4:13	Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze; you shall beat in pieces many peoples; and shall devote their gain to the LORD, their wealth to the Lord of the whole earth.
Micah	5:1	Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek.
Micah	5:2	But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose origin is from of old, from ancient days.
Micah	5:3	Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel.
Micah	5:4	And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth.
Micah	5:5	And he shall be their peace.When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men;
Micah	5:6	they shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its entrances; and he shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border.
Micah	5:7	Then the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the LORD, like showers on the grass, which delay not for a man nor wait for the children of man.
Micah	5:8	And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep, which, when it goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is none to deliver.
Micah	5:9	Your hand shall be lifted up over your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off.
Micah	5:10	And in that day, declares the LORD, I will cut off your horses from among you and will destroy your chariots;
Micah	5:11	and I will cut off the cities of your land and throw down all your strongholds;
Micah	5:12	and I will cut off sorceries from your hand, and you shall have no more tellers of fortunes;
Micah	5:13	and I will cut off your carved images and your pillars from among you, and you shall bow down no more to the work of your hands;
Micah	5:14	and I will root out your Asherah images from among you and destroy your cities.
Micah	5:15	And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey.
Micah	6:1	Hear what the LORD says: Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.
Micah	6:2	Hear, you mountains, the indictment of the LORD, and you enduring foundations of the earth, for the LORD has an indictment against his people, and he will contend with Israel.
Micah	6:3	"O my people, what have I done to you? How have I wearied you? Answer me!
Micah	6:4	For I brought you up from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery, and I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
Micah	6:5	O my people, remember what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him, and what happened from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the saving acts of the LORD."
Micah	6:6	"With what shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
Micah	6:7	Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?"
Micah	6:8	He has told you, O man, what is good; and what does the LORD require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God?
Micah	6:9	The voice of the LORD cries to the city--and it is sound wisdom to fear your name: "Hear of the rod and of him who appointed it!
Micah	6:10	Can I forget any longer the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure that is accursed?
Micah	6:11	Shall I acquit the man with wicked scales and with a bag of deceitful weights?
Micah	6:12	Your rich men are full of violence; your inhabitants speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
Micah	6:13	Therefore I strike you with a grievous blow, making you desolate because of your sins.
Micah	6:14	You shall eat, but not be satisfied, and there shall be hunger within you; you shall put away, but not preserve, and what you preserve I will give to the sword.
Micah	6:15	You shall sow, but not reap; you shall tread olives, but not anoint yourselves with oil; you shall tread grapes, but not drink wine.
Micah	6:16	For you have kept the statutes of Omri, and all the works of the house of Ahab; and you have walked in their counsels, that I may make you a desolation, and your inhabitants a hissing; so you shall bear the scorn of my people."
Micah	7:1	Woe is me! For I have become as when the summer fruit has been gathered, as when the grapes have been gleaned: there is no cluster to eat, no first-ripe fig that my soul desires.
Micah	7:2	The godly has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among mankind; they all lie in wait for blood, and each hunts the other with a net.
Micah	7:3	Their hands are on what is evil, to do it well; the prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul; thus they weave it together.
Micah	7:4	The best of them is like a brier, the most upright of them a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, of your punishment, has come; now their confusion is at hand.
Micah	7:5	Put no trust in a neighbor; have no confidence in a friend; guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your arms;
Micah	7:6	for the son treats the father with contempt, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the men of his own house.
Micah	7:7	But as for me, I will look to the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me.
Micah	7:8	Rejoice not over me, O my enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD will be a light to me.
Micah	7:9	I will bear the indignation of the LORD because I have sinned against him, until he pleads my cause and executes judgment for me. He will bring me out to the light; I shall look upon his vindication.
Micah	7:10	Then my enemy will see, and shame will cover her who said to me, "Where is the LORD your God?" My eyes will look upon her; now she will be trampled down like the mire of the streets.
Micah	7:11	A day for the building of your walls! In that day the boundary shall be far extended.
Micah	7:12	In that day they will come to you, from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt to the River, from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain.
Micah	7:13	But the earth will be desolate because of its inhabitants, for the fruit of their deeds.
Micah	7:14	Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your inheritance, who dwell alone in a forest in the midst of a garden land; let them graze in Bashan and Gilead as in the days of old.
Micah	7:15	As in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things.
Micah	7:16	The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hands on their mouths; their ears shall be deaf;
Micah	7:17	they shall lick the dust like a serpent, like the crawling things of the earth; they shall come trembling out of their strongholds; they shall turn in dread to the LORD our God, and they shall be in fear of you.
Micah	7:18	Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love.
Micah	7:19	He will again have compassion on us; he will tread our iniquities under foot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.
Micah	7:20	You will show faithfulness to Jacob and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.
Nahum	1:1	An oracle concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh.
Nahum	1:2	The LORD is a jealous and avenging God; the LORD is avenging and wrathful; the LORD takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies.
Nahum	1:3	The LORD is slow to anger and great in power, and the LORD will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
Nahum	1:4	He rebukes the sea and makes it dry; he dries up all the rivers; Bashan and Carmel wither; the bloom of Lebanon withers.
Nahum	1:5	The mountains quake before him; the hills melt; the earth heaves before him, the world and all who dwell in it.
Nahum	1:6	Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him.
Nahum	1:7	The LORD is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; he knows those who take refuge in him.
Nahum	1:8	But with an overflowing flood he will make a complete end of the adversaries, and will pursue his enemies into darkness.
Nahum	1:9	What do you plot against the LORD? He will make a complete end; trouble will not rise up a second time.
Nahum	1:10	For they are like entangled thorns, like drunkards as they drink; they are consumed like stubble fully dried.
Nahum	1:11	From you came one who plotted evil against the LORD, a worthless counselor.
Nahum	1:12	Thus says the LORD, "Though they are at full strength and many, they will be cut down and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.
Nahum	1:13	And now I will break his yoke from off you and will burst your bonds apart."
Nahum	1:14	The LORD has given commandment about you: "No more shall your name be perpetuated; from the house of your gods I will cut off the carved image and the metal image. I will make your grave, for you are vile."
Nahum	1:15	Behold, upon the mountains, the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace! Keep your feasts, O Judah; fulfill your vows, for never again shall the worthless pass through you; he is utterly cut off.
Nahum	2:1	The scatterer has come up against you. Man the ramparts; watch the road; dress for battle; collect all your strength.
Nahum	2:2	For the LORD is restoring the majesty of Jacob as the majesty of Israel, for plunderers have plundered them and ruined their branches.
Nahum	2:3	The shield of his mighty men is red; his soldiers are clothed in scarlet. The chariots come with flashing metal on the day he musters them; the cypress spears are brandished.
Nahum	2:4	The chariots race madly through the streets; they rush to and fro through the squares; they gleam like torches; they dart like lightning.
Nahum	2:5	He remembers his officers; they stumble as they go, they hasten to the wall; the siege tower is set up.
Nahum	2:6	The river gates are opened; the palace melts away;
Nahum	2:7	its mistress is stripped; she is carried off, her slave girls lamenting, moaning like doves and beating their breasts.
Nahum	2:8	Nineveh is like a pool whose waters run away. "Halt! Halt!" they cry, but none turns back.
Nahum	2:9	Plunder the silver, plunder the gold! There is no end of the treasure or of the wealth of all precious things.
Nahum	2:10	Desolate! Desolation and ruin! Hearts melt and knees tremble; anguish is in all loins; all faces grow pale!
Nahum	2:11	Where is the lions' den, the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and lioness went, where his cubs were, with none to disturb?
Nahum	2:12	The lion tore enough for his cubs and strangled prey for his lionesses; he filled his caves with prey and his dens with torn flesh.
Nahum	2:13	Behold, I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will burn your chariots in smoke, and the sword shall devour your young lions. I will cut off your prey from the earth, and the voice of your messengers shall no longer be heard.
Nahum	3:1	Woe to the bloody city, all full of lies and plunder--no end to the prey!
Nahum	3:2	The crack of the whip, and rumble of the wheel, galloping horse and bounding chariot!
Nahum	3:3	Horsemen charging, flashing sword and glittering spear, hosts of slain, heaps of corpses, dead bodies without end--they stumble over the bodies!
Nahum	3:4	And all for the countless whorings of the prostitute, graceful and of deadly charms, who betrays nations with her whorings, and peoples with her charms.
Nahum	3:5	Behold, I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts, and will lift up your skirts over your face; and I will make nations look at your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame.
Nahum	3:6	I will throw filth at you and treat you with contempt and make you a spectacle.
Nahum	3:7	And all who look at you will shrink from you and say, Wasted is Nineveh; who will grieve for her? Where shall I seek comforters for you?
Nahum	3:8	Are you better than Thebes that sat by the Nile, with water around her, her rampart a sea, and water her wall?
Nahum	3:9	Cush was her strength; Egypt too, and that without limit; Put and the Libyans were her helpers.
Nahum	3:10	Yet she became an exile; she went into captivity; her infants were dashed in pieces at the head of every street; for her honored men lots were cast, and all her great men were bound in chains.
Nahum	3:11	You also will be drunken; you will go into hiding; you will seek a refuge from the enemy.
Nahum	3:12	All your fortresses are like fig trees with first-ripe figs--if shaken they fall into the mouth of the eater.
Nahum	3:13	Behold, your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies; fire has devoured your bars.
Nahum	3:14	Draw water for the siege; strengthen your forts; go into the clay; tread the mortar; take hold of the brick mold!
Nahum	3:15	There will the fire devour you; the sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust. Multiply yourselves like the locust; multiply like the grasshopper!
Nahum	3:16	You increased your merchants more than the stars of the heavens. The locust spreads its wings and flies away.
Nahum	3:17	Your princes are like grasshoppers, your scribes like clouds of locusts settling on the fences in a day of cold--when the sun rises, they fly away; no one knows where they are.
Nahum	3:18	Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria; your nobles slumber. Your people are scattered on the mountains with none to gather them.
Nahum	3:19	There is no easing your hurt; your wound is grievous. All who hear the news about you clap their hands over you. For upon whom has not come your unceasing evil?
Habakkuk	1:1	The oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw.
Habakkuk	1:2	O LORD, how long shall I cry for help, and you will not hear? Or cry to you "Violence!" and you will not save?
Habakkuk	1:3	Why do you make me see iniquity, and why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me; strife and contention arise.
Habakkuk	1:4	So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous; so justice goes forth perverted.
Habakkuk	1:5	"Look among the nations, and see; wonder and be astounded. For I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told.
Habakkuk	1:6	For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breadth of the earth, to seize dwellings not their own.
Habakkuk	1:7	They are dreaded and fearsome; their justice and dignity go forth from themselves.
Habakkuk	1:8	Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves; their horsemen press proudly on. Their horsemen come from afar; they fly like an eagle swift to devour.
Habakkuk	1:9	They all come for violence, all their faces forward. They gather captives like sand.
Habakkuk	1:10	At kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh. They laugh at every fortress, for they pile up earth and take it.
Habakkuk	1:11	Then they sweep by like the wind and go on, guilty men, whose own might is their god!"
Habakkuk	1:12	Are you not from everlasting, O LORD my God, my Holy One? We shall not die. O LORD, you have ordained them as a judgment, and you, O Rock, have established them for reproof.
Habakkuk	1:13	You who are of purer eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong, why do you idly look at traitors and are silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he?
Habakkuk	1:14	You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler.
Habakkuk	1:15	He brings all of them up with a hook; he drags them out with his net; he gathers them in his dragnet; so he rejoices and is glad.
Habakkuk	1:16	Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings to his dragnet; for by them he lives in luxury, and his food is rich.
Habakkuk	1:17	Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever?
Habakkuk	2:1	I will take my stand at my watchpost and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.
Habakkuk	2:2	And the LORD answered me: "Write the vision; make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it.
Habakkuk	2:3	For still the vision awaits its appointed time; it hastens to the end--it will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it; it will surely come; it will not delay.
Habakkuk	2:4	"Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith.
Habakkuk	2:5	"Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol; like death he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples."
Habakkuk	2:6	Shall not all these take up their taunt against him, with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, "Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own--for how long?--and loads himself with pledges!"
Habakkuk	2:7	Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoil for them.
Habakkuk	2:8	Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall plunder you, for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Habakkuk	2:9	"Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm!
Habakkuk	2:10	You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples; you have forfeited your life.
Habakkuk	2:11	For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond.
Habakkuk	2:12	"Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity!
Habakkuk	2:13	Behold, is it not from the LORD of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing?
Habakkuk	2:14	For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Habakkuk	2:15	"Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink--you pour out your wrath and make them drunk, in order to gaze at their nakedness!
Habakkuk	2:16	You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink, yourself, and show your uncircumcision! The cup in the LORD's right hand will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory!
Habakkuk	2:17	The violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, as will the destruction of the beasts that terrified them, for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Habakkuk	2:18	"What profit is an idol when its maker has shaped it, a metal image, a teacher of lies? For its maker trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols!
Habakkuk	2:19	Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, Awake; to a silent stone, Arise! Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in it.
Habakkuk	2:20	But the LORD is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before him."
Habakkuk	3:1	A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigionoth.
Habakkuk	3:2	O LORD, I have heard the report of you, and your work, O LORD, do I fear. In the midst of the years revive it; in the midst of the years make it known; in wrath remember mercy.
Habakkuk	3:3	God came from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. Selah
Habakkuk	3:4	His brightness was like the light; rays flashed from his hand; and there he veiled his power.
Habakkuk	3:5	Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels.
Habakkuk	3:6	He stood and measured the earth; he looked and shook the nations; then the eternal mountains were scattered; the everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways.
Habakkuk	3:7	I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction; the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble.
Habakkuk	3:8	Was your wrath against the rivers, O LORD? Was your anger against the rivers, or your indignation against the sea, when you rode on your horses, on your chariot of salvation?
Habakkuk	3:9	You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. Selah You split the earth with rivers.
Habakkuk	3:10	The mountains saw you and writhed; the raging waters swept on; the deep gave forth its voice; it lifted its hands on high.
Habakkuk	3:11	The sun and moon stood still in their place at the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your glittering spear.
Habakkuk	3:12	You marched through the earth in fury; you threshed the nations in anger.
Habakkuk	3:13	You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. Selah
Habakkuk	3:14	You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret.
Habakkuk	3:15	You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters.
Habakkuk	3:16	I hear, and my body trembles; my lips quiver at the sound; rottenness enters into my bones; my legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us.
Habakkuk	3:17	Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls,
Habakkuk	3:18	yet I will rejoice in the LORD; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.
Habakkuk	3:19	GOD, the Lord, is my strength; he makes my feet like the deer's; he makes me tread on my high places.To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments.
Zephaniah	1:1	The word of the LORD that came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.
Zephaniah	1:2	"I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth," declares the LORD.
Zephaniah	1:3	"I will sweep away man and beast; I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, and the rubble with the wicked. I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth," declares the LORD.
Zephaniah	1:4	"I will stretch out my hand against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and I will cut off from this place the remnant of Baal and the name of the idolatrous priests along with the priests,
Zephaniah	1:5	those who bow down on the roofs to the host of the heavens, those who bow down and swear to the LORD and yet swear by Milcom,
Zephaniah	1:6	those who have turned back from following the LORD, who do not seek the LORD or inquire of him."
Zephaniah	1:7	Be silent before the Lord GOD! For the day of the LORD is near; the LORD has prepared a sacrifice and consecrated his guests.
Zephaniah	1:8	And on the day of the LORD's sacrifice--"I will punish the officials and the king's sons and all who array themselves in foreign attire.
Zephaniah	1:9	On that day I will punish everyone who leaps over the threshold, and those who fill their master's house with violence and fraud.
Zephaniah	1:10	"On that day," declares the LORD, "a cry will be heard from the Fish Gate, a wail from the Second Quarter, a loud crash from the hills.
Zephaniah	1:11	Wail, O inhabitants of the Mortar! For all the traders are no more; all who weigh out silver are cut off.
Zephaniah	1:12	At that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are complacent, those who say in their hearts, 'The LORD will not do good, nor will he do ill.'
Zephaniah	1:13	Their goods shall be plundered, and their houses laid waste. Though they build houses, they shall not inhabit them; though they plant vineyards, they shall not drink wine from them."
Zephaniah	1:14	The great day of the LORD is near, near and hastening fast; the sound of the day of the LORD is bitter; the mighty man cries aloud there.
Zephaniah	1:15	A day of wrath is that day, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness,
Zephaniah	1:16	a day of trumpet blast and battle cry against the fortified cities and against the lofty battlements.
Zephaniah	1:17	I will bring distress on mankind, so that they shall walk like the blind, because they have sinned against the LORD; their blood shall be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dung.
Zephaniah	1:18	Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them on the day of the wrath of the LORD. In the fire of his jealousy, all the earth shall be consumed; for a full and sudden end he will make of all the inhabitants of the earth.
Zephaniah	2:1	Gather together, yes, gather, O shameless nation,
Zephaniah	2:2	before the decree takes effect--before the day passes away like chaff--before there comes upon you the burning anger of the LORD, before there comes upon you the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zephaniah	2:3	Seek the LORD, all you humble of the land, who do his just commands; seek righteousness; seek humility; perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zephaniah	2:4	For Gaza shall be deserted, and Ashkelon shall become a desolation; Ashdod's people shall be driven out at noon, and Ekron shall be uprooted.
Zephaniah	2:5	Woe to you inhabitants of the seacoast, you nation of the Cherethites! The word of the LORD is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines; and I will destroy you until no inhabitant is left.
Zephaniah	2:6	And you, O seacoast, shall be pastures, with meadows for shepherds and folds for flocks.
Zephaniah	2:7	The seacoast shall become the possession of the remnant of the house of Judah, on which they shall graze, and in the houses of Ashkelon they shall lie down at evening. For the LORD their God will be mindful of them and restore their fortunes.
Zephaniah	2:8	"I have heard the taunts of Moab and the revilings of the Ammonites, how they have taunted my people and made boasts against their territory.
Zephaniah	2:9	Therefore, as I live," declares the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, "Moab shall become like Sodom, and the Ammonites like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and salt pits, and a waste forever. The remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the survivors of my nation shall possess them."
Zephaniah	2:10	This shall be their lot in return for their pride, because they taunted and boasted against the people of the LORD of hosts.
Zephaniah	2:11	The LORD will be awesome against them; for he will famish all the gods of the earth, and to him shall bow down, each in its place, all the lands of the nations.
Zephaniah	2:12	You also, O Cushites, shall be slain by my sword.
Zephaniah	2:13	And he will stretch out his hand against the north and destroy Assyria, and he will make Nineveh a desolation, a dry waste like the desert.
Zephaniah	2:14	Herds shall lie down in her midst, all kinds of beasts; even the owl and the hedgehog shall lodge in her capitals; a voice shall hoot in the window; devastation will be on the threshold; for her cedar work will be laid bare.
Zephaniah	2:15	This is the exultant city that lived securely, that said in her heart, "I am, and there is no one else." What a desolation she has become, a lair for wild beasts! Everyone who passes by her hisses and shakes his fist.
Zephaniah	3:1	Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled, the oppressing city!
Zephaniah	3:2	She listens to no voice; she accepts no correction. She does not trust in the LORD; she does not draw near to her God.
Zephaniah	3:3	Her officials within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves that leave nothing till the morning.
Zephaniah	3:4	Her prophets are fickle, treacherous men; her priests profane what is holy; they do violence to the law.
Zephaniah	3:5	The LORD within her is righteous; he does no injustice; every morning he shows forth his justice; each dawn he does not fail; but the unjust knows no shame.
Zephaniah	3:6	"I have cut off nations; their battlements are in ruins; I have laid waste their streets so that no one walks in them; their cities have been made desolate, without a man, without an inhabitant.
Zephaniah	3:7	I said, 'Surely you will fear me; you will accept correction. Then your dwelling would not be cut off according to all that I have appointed against you.' But all the more they were eager to make all their deeds corrupt.
Zephaniah	3:8	"Therefore wait for me," declares the LORD, "for the day when I rise up to seize the prey. For my decision is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out upon them my indignation, all my burning anger; for in the fire of my jealousy all the earth shall be consumed.
Zephaniah	3:9	"For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech, that all of them may call upon the name of the LORD and serve him with one accord.
Zephaniah	3:10	From beyond the rivers of Cush my worshipers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring my offering.
Zephaniah	3:11	"On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me; for then I will remove from your midst your proudly exultant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain.
Zephaniah	3:12	But I will leave in your midst a people humble and lowly. They shall seek refuge in the name of the LORD,
Zephaniah	3:13	those who are left in Israel; they shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid."
Zephaniah	3:14	Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem!
Zephaniah	3:15	The LORD has taken away the judgments against you; he has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the LORD, is in your midst; you shall never again fear evil.
Zephaniah	3:16	On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem: "Fear not, O Zion; let not your hands grow weak.
Zephaniah	3:17	The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.
Zephaniah	3:18	I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival, so that you will no longer suffer reproach.
Zephaniah	3:19	Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors. And I will save the lame and gather the outcast, and I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth.
Zephaniah	3:20	At that time I will bring you in, at the time when I gather you together; for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes," says the LORD.
Haggai	1:1	In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest:
Haggai	1:2	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: These people say the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the LORD."
Haggai	1:3	Then the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet,
Haggai	1:4	"Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house lies in ruins?
Haggai	1:5	Now, therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Haggai	1:6	You have sown much, and harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough; you drink, but you never have your fill. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm. And he who earns wages does so to put them into a bag with holes.
Haggai	1:7	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Haggai	1:8	Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house, that I may take pleasure in it and that I may be glorified, says the LORD.
Haggai	1:9	You looked for much, and behold, it came to little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why? declares the LORD of hosts. Because of my house that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his own house.
Haggai	1:10	Therefore the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce.
Haggai	1:11	And I have called for a drought on the land and the hills, on the grain, the new wine, the oil, on what the ground brings forth, on man and beast, and on all their labors."
Haggai	1:12	Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him. And the people feared the LORD.
Haggai	1:13	Then Haggai, the messenger of the LORD, spoke to the people with the LORD's message, "I am with you, declares the LORD."
Haggai	1:14	And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. And they came and worked on the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,
Haggai	1:15	on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
Haggai	2:1	In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet,
Haggai	2:2	"Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say,
Haggai	2:3	'Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes?
Haggai	2:4	Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares the LORD. Be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land, declares the LORD. Work, for I am with you, declares the LORD of hosts,
Haggai	2:5	according to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt. My Spirit remains in your midst. Fear not.
Haggai	2:6	For thus says the LORD of hosts: Yet once more, in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land.
Haggai	2:7	And I will shake all nations, so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the LORD of hosts.
Haggai	2:8	The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the LORD of hosts.
Haggai	2:9	The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the LORD of hosts. And in this place I will give peace, declares the LORD of hosts.'"
Haggai	2:10	On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came by Haggai the prophet,
Haggai	2:11	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: Ask the priests about the law:
Haggai	2:12	'If someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment and touches with his fold bread or stew or wine or oil or any kind of food, does it become holy?'" The priests answered and said, "No."
Haggai	2:13	Then Haggai said, "If someone who is unclean by contact with a dead body touches any of these, does it become unclean?" The priests answered and said, "It does become unclean."
Haggai	2:14	Then Haggai answered and said, "So is it with this people, and with this nation before me, declares the LORD, and so with every work of their hands. And what they offer there is unclean.
Haggai	2:15	Now then, consider from this day onward. Before stone was placed upon stone in the temple of the LORD,
Haggai	2:16	how did you fare? When one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw fifty measures, there were but twenty.
Haggai	2:17	I struck you and all the products of your toil with blight and with mildew and with hail, yet you did not turn to me, declares the LORD.
Haggai	2:18	Consider from this day onward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month. Since the day that the foundation of the LORD's temple was laid, consider:
Haggai	2:19	Is the seed yet in the barn? Indeed, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have yielded nothing. But from this day on I will bless you."
Haggai	2:20	The word of the LORD came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month,
Haggai	2:21	"Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I am about to shake the heavens and the earth,
Haggai	2:22	and to overthrow the throne of kingdoms. I am about to destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations, and overthrow the chariots and their riders. And the horses and their riders shall go down, every one by the sword of his brother.
Haggai	2:23	On that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel my servant, the son of Shealtiel, declares the LORD, and make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you, declares the LORD of hosts."
Zechariah	1:1	In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, saying,
Zechariah	1:2	"The LORD was very angry with your fathers.
Zechariah	1:3	Therefore say to them, Thus declares the LORD of hosts: Return to me, says the LORD of hosts, and I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah	1:4	Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.' But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the LORD.
Zechariah	1:5	Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
Zechariah	1:6	But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they repented and said, As the LORD of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us."
Zechariah	1:7	On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, saying,
Zechariah	1:8	"I saw in the night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse! He was standing among the myrtle trees in the glen, and behind him were red, sorrel, and white horses.
Zechariah	1:9	Then I said, 'What are these, my lord?' The angel who talked with me said to me, 'I will show you what they are.'
Zechariah	1:10	So the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, 'These are they whom the LORD has sent to patrol the earth.'
Zechariah	1:11	And they answered the angel of the LORD who was standing among the myrtle trees, and said, 'We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth remains at rest.'
Zechariah	1:12	Then the angel of the LORD said, 'O LORD of hosts, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry these seventy years?'
Zechariah	1:13	And the LORD answered gracious and comforting words to the angel who talked with me.
Zechariah	1:14	So the angel who talked with me said to me, 'Cry out, Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion.
Zechariah	1:15	And I am exceedingly angry with the nations that are at ease; for while I was angry but a little, they furthered the disaster.
Zechariah	1:16	Therefore, thus says the LORD, I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy; my house shall be built in it, declares the LORD of hosts, and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem.
Zechariah	1:17	Cry out again, Thus says the LORD of hosts: My cities shall again overflow with prosperity, and the LORD will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.'"
Zechariah	1:18	And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four horns!
Zechariah	1:19	And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these?" And he said to me, "These are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem."
Zechariah	1:20	Then the LORD showed me four craftsmen.
Zechariah	1:21	And I said, "What are these coming to do?" He said, "These are the horns that scattered Judah, so that no one raised his head. And these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations who lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it."
Zechariah	2:1	And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand!
Zechariah	2:2	Then I said, "Where are you going?" And he said to me, "To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its width and what is its length."
Zechariah	2:3	And behold, the angel who talked with me came forward, and another angel came forward to meet him
Zechariah	2:4	and said to him, "Run, say to that young man, 'Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls, because of the multitude of people and livestock in it.
Zechariah	2:5	And I will be to her a wall of fire all around, declares the LORD, and I will be the glory in her midst.'"
Zechariah	2:6	Up! Up! Flee from the land of the north, declares the LORD. For I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, declares the LORD.
Zechariah	2:7	Up! Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
Zechariah	2:8	For thus said the LORD of hosts, after his glory sent me to the nations who plundered you, for he who touches you touches the apple of his eye:
Zechariah	2:9	"Behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall become plunder for those who served them. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me.
Zechariah	2:10	Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I come and I will dwell in your midst, declares the LORD.
Zechariah	2:11	And many nations shall join themselves to the LORD in that day, and shall be my people. And I will dwell in your midst, and you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zechariah	2:12	And the LORD will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem."
Zechariah	2:13	Be silent, all flesh, before the LORD, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling.
Zechariah	3:1	Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the LORD, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him.
Zechariah	3:2	And the LORD said to Satan, "The LORD rebuke you, O Satan! The LORD who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Is not this a brand plucked from the fire?"
Zechariah	3:3	Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments.
Zechariah	3:4	And the angel said to those who were standing before him, "Remove the filthy garments from him." And to him he said, "Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments."
Zechariah	3:5	And I said, "Let them put a clean turban on his head." So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the LORD was standing by.
Zechariah	3:6	And the angel of the LORD solemnly assured Joshua,
Zechariah	3:7	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here.
Zechariah	3:8	Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch.
Zechariah	3:9	For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.
Zechariah	3:10	In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree."
Zechariah	4:1	And the angel who talked with me came again and woke me, like a man who is awakened out of his sleep.
Zechariah	4:2	And he said to me, "What do you see?" I said, "I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it.
Zechariah	4:3	And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left."
Zechariah	4:4	And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"
Zechariah	4:5	Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said, "No, my lord."
Zechariah	4:6	Then he said to me, "This is the word of the LORD to Zerubbabel: Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah	4:7	Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you shall become a plain. And he shall bring forward the top stone amid shouts of 'Grace, grace to it!'"
Zechariah	4:8	Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Zechariah	4:9	"The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also complete it. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zechariah	4:10	For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel."These seven are the eyes of the LORD, which range through the whole earth."
Zechariah	4:11	Then I said to him, "What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand?"
Zechariah	4:12	And a second time I answered and said to him, "What are these two branches of the olive trees, which are beside the two golden pipes from which the golden oil is poured out?"
Zechariah	4:13	He said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said, "No, my lord."
Zechariah	4:14	Then he said, "These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth."
Zechariah	5:1	Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a flying scroll!
Zechariah	5:2	And he said to me, "What do you see?" I answered, "I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits, and its width ten cubits."
Zechariah	5:3	Then he said to me, "This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole land. For everyone who steals shall be cleaned out according to what is on one side, and everyone who swears falsely shall be cleaned out according to what is on the other side.
Zechariah	5:4	I will send it out, declares the LORD of hosts, and it shall enter the house of the thief, and the house of him who swears falsely by my name. And it shall remain in his house and consume it, both timber and stones."
Zechariah	5:5	Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, "Lift your eyes and see what this is that is going out."
Zechariah	5:6	And I said, "What is it?" He said, "This is the basket that is going out." And he said, "This is their iniquity in all the land."
Zechariah	5:7	And behold, the leaden cover was lifted, and there was a woman sitting in the basket!
Zechariah	5:8	And he said, "This is Wickedness." And he thrust her back into the basket, and thrust down the leaden weight on its opening.
Zechariah	5:9	Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, two women coming forward! The wind was in their wings. They had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven.
Zechariah	5:10	Then I said to the angel who talked with me, "Where are they taking the basket?"
Zechariah	5:11	He said to me, "To the land of Shinar, to build a house for it. And when this is prepared, they will set the basket down there on its base."
Zechariah	6:1	Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze.
Zechariah	6:2	The first chariot had red horses, the second black horses,
Zechariah	6:3	the third white horses, and the fourth chariot dappled horses--all of them strong.
Zechariah	6:4	Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"
Zechariah	6:5	And the angel answered and said to me, "These are going out to the four winds of heaven, after presenting themselves before the LORD of all the earth.
Zechariah	6:6	The chariot with the black horses goes toward the north country, the white ones go after them, and the dappled ones go toward the south country."
Zechariah	6:7	When the strong horses came out, they were impatient to go and patrol the earth. And he said, "Go, patrol the earth." So they patrolled the earth.
Zechariah	6:8	Then he cried to me, "Behold, those who go toward the north country have set my Spirit at rest in the north country."
Zechariah	6:9	And the word of the LORD came to me:
Zechariah	6:10	"Take from the exiles Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have arrived from Babylon, and go the same day to the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah.
Zechariah	6:11	Take from them silver and gold, and make a crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest.
Zechariah	6:12	And say to him, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, "Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: for he shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD.
Zechariah	6:13	It is he who shall build the temple of the LORD and shall bear royal honor, and shall sit and rule on his throne. And there shall be a priest on his throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between them both."'
Zechariah	6:14	And the crown shall be in the temple of the LORD as a reminder to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah.
Zechariah	6:15	"And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the LORD. And you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass, if you will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God."
Zechariah	7:1	In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the LORD came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chislev.
Zechariah	7:2	Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech and their men to entreat the favor of the LORD,
Zechariah	7:3	saying to the priests of the house of the LORD of hosts and the prophets, "Should I weep and abstain in the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?"
Zechariah	7:4	Then the word of the LORD of hosts came to me:
Zechariah	7:5	"Say to all the people of the land and the priests, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh, for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted?
Zechariah	7:6	And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves?
Zechariah	7:7	Were not these the words that the LORD proclaimed by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and prosperous, with her cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?"
Zechariah	7:8	And the word of the LORD came to Zechariah, saying,
Zechariah	7:9	"Thus says the LORD of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another,
Zechariah	7:10	do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart."
Zechariah	7:11	But they refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they might not hear.
Zechariah	7:12	They made their hearts diamond-hard lest they should hear the law and the words that the LORD of hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah	7:13	"As I called, and they would not hear, so they called, and I would not hear," says the LORD of hosts,
Zechariah	7:14	"and I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations that they had not known. Thus the land they left was desolate, so that no one went to and fro, and the pleasant land was made desolate."
Zechariah	8:1	And the word of the LORD of hosts came, saying,
Zechariah	8:2	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath.
Zechariah	8:3	Thus says the LORD: I have returned to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem shall be called the faithful city, and the mountain of the LORD of hosts, the holy mountain.
Zechariah	8:4	Thus says the LORD of hosts: Old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each with staff in hand because of great age.
Zechariah	8:5	And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
Zechariah	8:6	Thus says the LORD of hosts: If it is marvelous in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the LORD of hosts?
Zechariah	8:7	Thus says the LORD of hosts: behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west country,
Zechariah	8:8	and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God, in faithfulness and in righteousness."
Zechariah	8:9	Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Let your hands be strong, you who in these days have been hearing these words from the mouth of the prophets who were present on the day that the foundation of the house of the LORD of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built.
Zechariah	8:10	For before those days there was no wage for man or any wage for beast, neither was there any safety from the foe for him who went out or came in, for I set every man against his neighbor.
Zechariah	8:11	But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in the former days, declares the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah	8:12	For there shall be a sowing of peace. The vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its produce, and the heavens shall give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things.
Zechariah	8:13	And as you have been a byword of cursing among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong."
Zechariah	8:14	For thus says the LORD of hosts: "As I purposed to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the LORD of hosts,
Zechariah	8:15	so again have I purposed in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; fear not.
Zechariah	8:16	These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace;
Zechariah	8:17	do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath, for all these things I hate, declares the LORD."
Zechariah	8:18	And the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying,
Zechariah	8:19	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth and the fast of the seventh and the fast of the tenth shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts. Therefore love truth and peace.
Zechariah	8:20	"Thus says the LORD of hosts: Peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities.
Zechariah	8:21	The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, 'Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the LORD and to seek the LORD of hosts; I myself am going.'
Zechariah	8:22	Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the LORD of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the LORD.
Zechariah	8:23	Thus says the LORD of hosts: In those days ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew, saying, 'Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.'"
Zechariah	9:1	The burden of the word of the LORD is against the land of Hadrach and Damascus is its resting place. For the LORD has an eye on mankind and on all the tribes of Israel,
Zechariah	9:2	and on Hamath also, which borders on it, Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise.
Zechariah	9:3	Tyre has built herself a rampart and heaped up silver like dust, and fine gold like the mud of the streets.
Zechariah	9:4	But behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions and strike down her power on the sea, and she shall be devoured by fire.
Zechariah	9:5	Ashkelon shall see it, and be afraid; Gaza too, and shall writhe in anguish; Ekron also, because its hopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza; Ashkelon shall be uninhabited;
Zechariah	9:6	a mixed people shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of Philistia.
Zechariah	9:7	I will take away its blood from its mouth, and its abominations from between its teeth; it too shall be a remnant for our God; it shall be like a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites.
Zechariah	9:8	Then I will encamp at my house as a guard, so that none shall march to and fro; no oppressor shall again march over them, for now I see with my own eyes.
Zechariah	9:9	Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem! behold, your king is coming to you; righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
Zechariah	9:10	I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the war horse from Jerusalem; and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations; his rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
Zechariah	9:11	As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit.
Zechariah	9:12	Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope; today I declare that I will restore to you double.
Zechariah	9:13	For I have bent Judah as my bow; I have made Ephraim its arrow. I will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and wield you like a warrior's sword.
Zechariah	9:14	Then the LORD will appear over them, and his arrow will go forth like lightning; the Lord GOD will sound the trumpet and will march forth in the whirlwinds of the south.
Zechariah	9:15	The LORD of hosts will protect them, and they shall devour, and tread down the sling stones, and they shall drink and roar as if drunk with wine, and be full like a bowl, drenched like the corners of the altar.
Zechariah	9:16	On that day the LORD their God will save them, as the flock of his people; for like the jewels of a crown they shall shine on his land.
Zechariah	9:17	For how great is his goodness, and how great his beauty! Grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the young women.
Zechariah	10:1	Ask rain from the LORD in the season of the spring rain, from the LORD who makes the storm clouds, and he will give them showers of rain, to everyone the vegetation in the field.
Zechariah	10:2	For the household gods utter nonsense, and the diviners see lies; they tell false dreams and give empty consolation. Therefore the people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd.
Zechariah	10:3	"My anger is hot against the shepherds, and I will punish the leaders; for the LORD of hosts cares for his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic steed in battle.
Zechariah	10:4	From him shall come the cornerstone, from him the tent peg, from him the battle bow, from him every ruler--all of them together.
Zechariah	10:5	They shall be like mighty men in battle, trampling the foe in the mud of the streets; they shall fight because the LORD is with them, and they shall put to shame the riders on horses.
Zechariah	10:6	"I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph. I will bring them back because I have compassion on them, and they shall be as though I had not rejected them, for I am the LORD their God and I will answer them.
Zechariah	10:7	Then Ephraim shall become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts shall be glad as with wine. Their children shall see it and be glad; their hearts shall rejoice in the LORD.
Zechariah	10:8	"I will whistle for them and gather them in, for I have redeemed them, and they shall be as many as they were before.
Zechariah	10:9	Though I scattered them among the nations, yet in far countries they shall remember me, and with their children they shall live and return.
Zechariah	10:10	I will bring them home from the land of Egypt, and gather them from Assyria, and I will bring them to the land of Gilead and to Lebanon, till there is no room for them.
Zechariah	10:11	He shall pass through the sea of troubles and strike down the waves of the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall be dried up. The pride of Assyria shall be laid low, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart.
Zechariah	10:12	I will make them strong in the LORD, and they shall walk in his name," declares the LORD.
Zechariah	11:1	Open your doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars!
Zechariah	11:2	Wail, O cypress, for the cedar has fallen, for the glorious trees are ruined! Wail, oaks of Bashan, for the thick forest has been felled!
Zechariah	11:3	The sound of the wail of the shepherds, for their glory is ruined! The sound of the roar of the lions, for the thicket of the Jordan is ruined!
Zechariah	11:4	Thus said the LORD my God: "Become shepherd of the flock doomed to slaughter.
Zechariah	11:5	Those who buy them slaughter them and go unpunished, and those who sell them say, 'Blessed be the LORD, I have become rich,' and their own shepherds have no pity on them.
Zechariah	11:6	For I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of this land, declares the LORD. Behold, I will cause each of them to fall into the hand of his neighbor, and each into the hand of his king, and they shall crush the land, and I will deliver none from their hand."
Zechariah	11:7	So I became the shepherd of the flock doomed to be slaughtered by the sheep traders. And I took two staffs, one I named Favor, the other I named Union. And I tended the sheep.
Zechariah	11:8	In one month I destroyed the three shepherds. But I became impatient with them, and they also detested me.
Zechariah	11:9	So I said, "I will not be your shepherd. What is to die, let it die. What is to be destroyed, let it be destroyed. And let those who are left devour the flesh of one another."
Zechariah	11:10	And I took my staff Favor, and I broke it, annulling the covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
Zechariah	11:11	So it was annulled on that day, and the sheep traders, who were watching me, knew that it was the word of the LORD.
Zechariah	11:12	Then I said to them, "If it seems good to you, give me my wages; but if not, keep them." And they weighed out as my wages thirty pieces of silver.
Zechariah	11:13	Then the LORD said to me, "Throw it to the potter"--the lordly price at which I was priced by them. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the LORD, to the potter.
Zechariah	11:14	Then I broke my second staff Union, annulling the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
Zechariah	11:15	Then the LORD said to me, "Take once more the equipment of a foolish shepherd.
Zechariah	11:16	For behold, I am raising up in the land a shepherd who does not care for those being destroyed, or seek the young or heal the maimed or nourish the healthy, but devours the flesh of the fat ones, tearing off even their hoofs.
Zechariah	11:17	"Woe to my worthless shepherd, who deserts the flock! May the sword strike his arm and his right eye! Let his arm be wholly withered, his right eye utterly blinded!"
Zechariah	12:1	The burden of the word of the LORD concerning Israel: Thus declares the LORD, who stretched out the heavens and founded the earth and formed the spirit of man within him:
Zechariah	12:2	"Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem a cup of staggering to all the surrounding peoples. The siege of Jerusalem will also be against Judah.
Zechariah	12:3	On that day I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples. All who lift it will surely hurt themselves. And all the nations of the earth will gather against it.
Zechariah	12:4	On that day, declares the LORD, I will strike every horse with panic, and its rider with madness. But for the sake of the house of Judah I will keep my eyes open, when I strike every horse of the peoples with blindness.
Zechariah	12:5	Then the clans of Judah shall say to themselves, 'The inhabitants of Jerusalem have strength through the LORD of hosts, their God.'
Zechariah	12:6	"On that day I will make the clans of Judah like a blazing pot in the midst of wood, like a flaming torch among sheaves. And they shall devour to the right and to the left all the surrounding peoples, while Jerusalem shall again be inhabited in its place, in Jerusalem.
Zechariah	12:7	"And the LORD will give salvation to the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not surpass that of Judah.
Zechariah	12:8	On that day the LORD will protect the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them on that day shall be like David, and the house of David shall be like God, like the angel of the LORD, going before them.
Zechariah	12:9	And on that day I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
Zechariah	12:10	"And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that, when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one weeps over a firstborn.
Zechariah	12:11	On that day the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad-rimmon in the plain of Megiddo.
Zechariah	12:12	The land shall mourn, each family by itself: the family of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zechariah	12:13	the family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the Shimeites by itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zechariah	12:14	and all the families that are left, each by itself, and their wives by themselves.
Zechariah	13:1	"On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness.
Zechariah	13:2	"And on that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, so that they shall be remembered no more. And also I will remove from the land the prophets and the spirit of uncleanness.
Zechariah	13:3	And if anyone again prophesies, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, 'You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of the LORD.' And his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through when he prophesies.
Zechariah	13:4	"On that day every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies. He will not put on a hairy cloak in order to deceive,
Zechariah	13:5	but he will say, 'I am no prophet, I am a worker of the soil, for a man sold me in my youth.'
Zechariah	13:6	And if one asks him, 'What are these wounds on your back?' he will say, 'The wounds I received in the house of my friends.'
Zechariah	13:7	"Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me," declares the LORD of hosts."Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; I will turn my hand against the little ones.
Zechariah	13:8	In the whole land, declares the LORD, two thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left alive.
Zechariah	13:9	And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them. I will say, 'They are my people'; and they will say, 'The LORD is my God.'"
Zechariah	14:1	Behold, a day is coming for the LORD, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst.
Zechariah	14:2	For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken and the houses plundered and the women raped. Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
Zechariah	14:3	Then the LORD will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle.
Zechariah	14:4	On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount shall move northward, and the other half southward.
Zechariah	14:5	And you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Then the LORD my God will come, and all the holy ones with him.
Zechariah	14:6	On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost.
Zechariah	14:7	And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the LORD, neither day nor night, but at evening time there shall be light.
Zechariah	14:8	On that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter.
Zechariah	14:9	And the LORD will be king over all the earth. On that day the LORD will be one and his name one.
Zechariah	14:10	The whole land shall be turned into a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem shall remain aloft on its site from the Gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses.
Zechariah	14:11	And it shall be inhabited, for there shall never again be a decree of utter destruction. Jerusalem shall dwell in security.
Zechariah	14:12	And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem: their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths.
Zechariah	14:13	And on that day a great panic from the LORD shall fall on them, so that each will seize the hand of another, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other.
Zechariah	14:14	Even Judah will fight against Jerusalem. And the wealth of all the surrounding nations shall be collected, gold, silver, and garments in great abundance.
Zechariah	14:15	And a plague like this plague shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and whatever beasts may be in those camps.
Zechariah	14:16	Then everyone who survives of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah	14:17	And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, there will be no rain on them.
Zechariah	14:18	And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain; there shall be the plague with which the LORD afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah	14:19	This shall be the punishment to Egypt and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah	14:20	And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, "Holy to the LORD." And the pots in the house of the LORD shall be as the bowls before the altar.
Zechariah	14:21	And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the LORD of hosts, so that all who sacrifice may come and take of them and boil the meat of the sacrifice in them. And there shall no longer be a trader in the house of the LORD of hosts on that day.
Malachi	1:1	The oracle of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
Malachi	1:2	"I have loved you," says the LORD. But you say, "How have you loved us?Is not Esau Jacob's brother?" declares the LORD. "Yet I have loved Jacob
Malachi	1:3	but Esau I have hated. I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals of the desert."
Malachi	1:4	If Edom says, "We are shattered but we will rebuild the ruins," the LORD of hosts says, "They may build, but I will tear down, and they will be called 'the wicked country,' and 'the people with whom the LORD is angry forever.'"
Malachi	1:5	Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, "Great is the LORD beyond the border of Israel!"
Malachi	1:6	"A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my fear? says the LORD of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, 'How have we despised your name?'
Malachi	1:7	By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, 'How have we polluted you?' By saying that the LORD's table may be despised.
Malachi	1:8	When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	1:9	And now entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us. With such a gift from your hand, will he show favor to any of you? says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	1:10	Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says the LORD of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand.
Malachi	1:11	For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering. For my name will be great among the nations, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	1:12	But you profane it when you say that the Lord's table is polluted, and its fruit, that is, its food may be despised.
Malachi	1:13	But you say, 'What a weariness this is,' and you snort at it, says the LORD of hosts. You bring what has been taken by violence or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering! Shall I accept that from your hand? says the LORD.
Malachi	1:14	Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock, and vows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great King, says the LORD of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations.
Malachi	2:1	"And now, O priests, this command is for you.
Malachi	2:2	If you will not listen, if you will not take it to heart to give honor to my name, says the LORD of hosts, then I will send the curse upon you and I will curse your blessings. Indeed, I have already cursed them, because you do not lay it to heart.
Malachi	2:3	Behold, I will rebuke your offspring, and spread dung on your faces, the dung of your offerings, and you shall be taken away with it.
Malachi	2:4	So shall you know that I have sent this command to you, that my covenant with Levi may stand, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	2:5	My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave them to him. It was a covenant of fear, and he feared me. He stood in awe of my name.
Malachi	2:6	True instruction was in his mouth, and no wrong was found on his lips. He walked with me in peace and uprightness, and he turned many from iniquity.
Malachi	2:7	For the lips of a priest should guard knowledge, and people should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	2:8	But you have turned aside from the way. You have caused many to stumble by your instruction. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the LORD of hosts,
Malachi	2:9	and so I make you despised and abased before all the people, inasmuch as you do not keep my ways but show partiality in your instruction."
Malachi	2:10	Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers?
Malachi	2:11	Judah has been faithless, and abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the LORD, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
Malachi	2:12	May the LORD cut off from the tents of Jacob, any descendant of the man who does this, who brings an offering to the LORD of hosts!
Malachi	2:13	And this second thing you do. You cover the LORD's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand.
Malachi	2:14	But you say, "Why does he not?" Because the LORD was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant.
Malachi	2:15	Did he not make them one, with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth.
Malachi	2:16	"For the man who hates and divorces, says the LORD, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the LORD of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and do not be faithless."
Malachi	2:17	You have wearied the LORD with your words. But you say, "How have we wearied him?" By saying, "Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the LORD, and he delights in them." Or by asking, "Where is the God of justice?"
Malachi	3:1	"Behold, I send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	3:2	But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.
Malachi	3:3	He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the LORD.
Malachi	3:4	Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the LORD as in the days of old and as in former years.
Malachi	3:5	"Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	3:6	"For I the LORD do not change; therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed.
Malachi	3:7	From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts. But you say, 'How shall we return?'
Malachi	3:8	Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, 'How have we robbed you?' In your tithes and contributions.
Malachi	3:9	You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you.
Malachi	3:10	Bring the full tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the LORD of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need.
Malachi	3:11	I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	3:12	Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	3:13	"Your words have been hard against me, says the LORD. But you say, 'How have we spoken against you?'
Malachi	3:14	You have said, 'It is vain to serve God. What is the profit of our keeping his charge or of walking as in mourning before the LORD of hosts?
Malachi	3:15	And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only prosper but they put God to the test and they escape.'"
Malachi	3:16	Then those who feared the LORD spoke with one another. The LORD paid attention and heard them, and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the LORD and esteemed his name.
Malachi	3:17	"They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him.
Malachi	3:18	Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve him.
Malachi	4:1	"For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the LORD of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch.
Malachi	4:2	But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall.
Malachi	4:3	And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, on the day when I act, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi	4:4	"Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel.
Malachi	4:5	"Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes.
Malachi	4:6	And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction."
Matthew	1:1	The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Matthew	1:2	Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
Matthew	1:3	and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram,
Matthew	1:4	and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon,
Matthew	1:5	and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse,
Matthew	1:6	and Jesse the father of David the king.And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah,
Matthew	1:7	and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph,
Matthew	1:8	and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah,
Matthew	1:9	and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
Matthew	1:10	and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah,
Matthew	1:11	and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
Matthew	1:12	And after the deportation to Babylon: Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
Matthew	1:13	and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
Matthew	1:14	and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
Matthew	1:15	and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
Matthew	1:16	and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
Matthew	1:17	So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ fourteen generations.
Matthew	1:18	Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit.
Matthew	1:19	And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly.
Matthew	1:20	But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, "Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
Matthew	1:21	She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins."
Matthew	1:22	All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet:
Matthew	1:23	"Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel"(which means, God with us).
Matthew	1:24	When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him: he took his wife,
Matthew	1:25	but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus.
Matthew	2:1	Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem,
Matthew	2:2	saying, "Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him."
Matthew	2:3	When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him;
Matthew	2:4	and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
Matthew	2:5	They told him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet:
Matthew	2:6	"'And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.'"
Matthew	2:7	Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared.
Matthew	2:8	And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, "Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word, that I too may come and worship him."
Matthew	2:9	After listening to the king, they went on their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was.
Matthew	2:10	When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
Matthew	2:11	And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
Matthew	2:12	And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way.
Matthew	2:13	Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, "Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child, to destroy him."
Matthew	2:14	And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt
Matthew	2:15	and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, "Out of Egypt I called my son."
Matthew	2:16	Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious, and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men.
Matthew	2:17	Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah:
Matthew	2:18	"A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children; she refused to be comforted, because they are no more."
Matthew	2:19	But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
Matthew	2:20	saying, "Rise, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead."
Matthew	2:21	And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel.
Matthew	2:22	But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there, and being warned in a dream he withdrew to the district of Galilee.
Matthew	2:23	And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled: "He shall be called a Nazarene."
Matthew	3:1	In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea,
Matthew	3:2	"Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Matthew	3:3	For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness: 'Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.'"
Matthew	3:4	Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Matthew	3:5	Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him,
Matthew	3:6	and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Matthew	3:7	But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, "You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Matthew	3:8	Bear fruit in keeping with repentance.
Matthew	3:9	And do not presume to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father,' for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Matthew	3:10	Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Matthew	3:11	"I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
Matthew	3:12	His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire."
Matthew	3:13	Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
Matthew	3:14	John would have prevented him, saying, "I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?"
Matthew	3:15	But Jesus answered him, "Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness." Then he consented.
Matthew	3:16	And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;
Matthew	3:17	and behold, a voice from heaven said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased."
Matthew	4:1	Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
Matthew	4:2	And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.
Matthew	4:3	And the tempter came and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread."
Matthew	4:4	But he answered, "It is written, "'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.'"
Matthew	4:5	Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple
Matthew	4:6	and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, "'He will command his angels concerning you,'and "'On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"
Matthew	4:7	Jesus said to him, "Again it is written, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'"
Matthew	4:8	Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
Matthew	4:9	And he said to him, "All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me."
Matthew	4:10	Then Jesus said to him, "Be gone, Satan! For it is written, "'You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.'"
Matthew	4:11	Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him.
Matthew	4:12	Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee.
Matthew	4:13	And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali,
Matthew	4:14	so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:
Matthew	4:15	"The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles--
Matthew	4:16	the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned."
Matthew	4:17	From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Matthew	4:18	While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Matthew	4:19	And he said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men."
Matthew	4:20	Immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Matthew	4:21	And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
Matthew	4:22	Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him.
Matthew	4:23	And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people.
Matthew	4:24	So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them.
Matthew	4:25	And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan.
Matthew	5:1	Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him.
Matthew	5:2	And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying:
Matthew	5:3	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	5:4	"Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Matthew	5:5	"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
Matthew	5:6	"Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
Matthew	5:7	"Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.
Matthew	5:8	"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
Matthew	5:9	"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.
Matthew	5:10	"Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	5:11	"Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account.
Matthew	5:12	Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
Matthew	5:13	"You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
Matthew	5:14	"You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
Matthew	5:15	Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house.
Matthew	5:16	In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	5:17	"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.
Matthew	5:18	For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
Matthew	5:19	Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	5:20	For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	5:21	"You have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You shall not murder; and whoever murders will be liable to judgment.'
Matthew	5:22	But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, 'You fool!' will be liable to the hell of fire.
Matthew	5:23	So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you,
Matthew	5:24	leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Matthew	5:25	Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison.
Matthew	5:26	Truly, I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny.
Matthew	5:27	"You have heard that it was said, 'You shall not commit adultery.'
Matthew	5:28	But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Matthew	5:29	If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell.
Matthew	5:30	And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell.
Matthew	5:31	"It was also said, 'Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.'
Matthew	5:32	But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
Matthew	5:33	"Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, 'You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.'
Matthew	5:34	But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God,
Matthew	5:35	or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
Matthew	5:36	And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black.
Matthew	5:37	Let what you say be simply 'Yes' or 'No'; anything more than this comes from evil.
Matthew	5:38	"You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.'
Matthew	5:39	But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.
Matthew	5:40	And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
Matthew	5:41	And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles.
Matthew	5:42	Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.
Matthew	5:43	"You have heard that it was said, 'You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.'
Matthew	5:44	But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,
Matthew	5:45	so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
Matthew	5:46	For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?
Matthew	5:47	And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?
Matthew	5:48	You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Matthew	6:1	"Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	6:2	"Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Matthew	6:3	But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
Matthew	6:4	so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew	6:5	"And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Matthew	6:6	But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew	6:7	"And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.
Matthew	6:8	Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him.
Matthew	6:9	Pray then like this: "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.
Matthew	6:10	Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.
Matthew	6:11	Give us this day our daily bread,
Matthew	6:12	and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
Matthew	6:13	And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
Matthew	6:14	For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you,
Matthew	6:15	but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Matthew	6:16	"And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Matthew	6:17	But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
Matthew	6:18	that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew	6:19	"Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal,
Matthew	6:20	but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal.
Matthew	6:21	For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Matthew	6:22	"The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light,
Matthew	6:23	but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!
Matthew	6:24	"No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.
Matthew	6:25	"Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
Matthew	6:26	Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?
Matthew	6:27	And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?
Matthew	6:28	And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin,
Matthew	6:29	yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Matthew	6:30	But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?
Matthew	6:31	Therefore do not be anxious, saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we drink?' or 'What shall we wear?'
Matthew	6:32	For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
Matthew	6:33	But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Matthew	6:34	"Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
Matthew	7:1	"Judge not, that you be not judged.
Matthew	7:2	For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you.
Matthew	7:3	Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
Matthew	7:4	Or how can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the speck out of your eye,' when there is the log in your own eye?
Matthew	7:5	You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
Matthew	7:6	"Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.
Matthew	7:7	"Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Matthew	7:8	For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.
Matthew	7:9	Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?
Matthew	7:10	Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?
Matthew	7:11	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
Matthew	7:12	"So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
Matthew	7:13	"Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
Matthew	7:14	For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few.
Matthew	7:15	"Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.
Matthew	7:16	You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?
Matthew	7:17	So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
Matthew	7:18	A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit.
Matthew	7:19	Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Matthew	7:20	Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.
Matthew	7:21	"Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	7:22	On that day many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?'
Matthew	7:23	And then will I declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.'
Matthew	7:24	"Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.
Matthew	7:25	And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock.
Matthew	7:26	And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.
Matthew	7:27	And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it."
Matthew	7:28	And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching,
Matthew	7:29	for he was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as their scribes.
Matthew	8:1	When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him.
Matthew	8:2	And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, "Lord, if you will, you can make me clean."
Matthew	8:3	And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, "I will; be clean." And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
Matthew	8:4	And Jesus said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Matthew	8:5	When he entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him,
Matthew	8:6	"Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly."
Matthew	8:7	And he said to him, "I will come and heal him."
Matthew	8:8	But the centurion replied, "Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Matthew	8:9	For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes, and to another, 'Come,' and he comes, and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."
Matthew	8:10	When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, "Truly, I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith.
Matthew	8:11	I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven,
Matthew	8:12	while the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Matthew	8:13	And to the centurion Jesus said, "Go; let it be done for you as you have believed." And the servant was healed at that very moment.
Matthew	8:14	And when Jesus entered Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever.
Matthew	8:15	He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose and began to serve him.
Matthew	8:16	That evening they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word and healed all who were sick.
Matthew	8:17	This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: "He took our illnesses and bore our diseases."
Matthew	8:18	Now when Jesus saw a great crowd around him, he gave orders to go over to the other side.
Matthew	8:19	And a scribe came up and said to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go."
Matthew	8:20	And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head."
Matthew	8:21	Another of the disciples said to him, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father."
Matthew	8:22	And Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead."
Matthew	8:23	And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him.
Matthew	8:24	And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep.
Matthew	8:25	And they went and woke him, saying, "Save us, Lord; we are perishing."
Matthew	8:26	And he said to them, "Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?" Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
Matthew	8:27	And the men marveled, saying, "What sort of man is this, that even winds and sea obey him?"
Matthew	8:28	And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way.
Matthew	8:29	And behold, they cried out, "What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?"
Matthew	8:30	Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them.
Matthew	8:31	And the demons begged him, saying, "If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs."
Matthew	8:32	And he said to them, "Go." So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters.
Matthew	8:33	The herdsmen fled, and going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon-possessed men.
Matthew	8:34	And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region.
Matthew	9:1	And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city.
Matthew	9:2	And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, "Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven."
Matthew	9:3	And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, "This man is blaspheming."
Matthew	9:4	But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts?
Matthew	9:5	For which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'?
Matthew	9:6	But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"--he then said to the paralytic--"Rise, pick up your bed and go home."
Matthew	9:7	And he rose and went home.
Matthew	9:8	When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
Matthew	9:9	As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, "Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
Matthew	9:10	And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples.
Matthew	9:11	And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
Matthew	9:12	But when he heard it, he said, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
Matthew	9:13	Go and learn what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.' For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners."
Matthew	9:14	Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"
Matthew	9:15	And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.
Matthew	9:16	No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made.
Matthew	9:17	Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved."
Matthew	9:18	While he was saying these things to them, behold, a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying, "My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live."
Matthew	9:19	And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.
Matthew	9:20	And behold, a woman who had suffered from a discharge of blood for twelve years came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment,
Matthew	9:21	for she said to herself, "If I only touch his garment, I will be made well."
Matthew	9:22	Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, "Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well." And instantly the woman was made well.
Matthew	9:23	And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion,
Matthew	9:24	he said, "Go away, for the girl is not dead but sleeping." And they laughed at him.
Matthew	9:25	But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
Matthew	9:26	And the report of this went through all that district.
Matthew	9:27	And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, "Have mercy on us, Son of David."
Matthew	9:28	When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, "Do you believe that I am able to do this?" They said to him, "Yes, Lord."
Matthew	9:29	Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith be it done to you."
Matthew	9:30	And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, "See that no one knows about it."
Matthew	9:31	But they went away and spread his fame through all that district.
Matthew	9:32	As they were going away, behold, a demon-oppressed man who was mute was brought to him.
Matthew	9:33	And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, "Never was anything like this seen in Israel."
Matthew	9:34	But the Pharisees said, "He casts out demons by the prince of demons."
Matthew	9:35	And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction.
Matthew	9:36	When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.
Matthew	9:37	Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few;
Matthew	9:38	therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest."
Matthew	10:1	And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every affliction.
Matthew	10:2	The names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Matthew	10:3	Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Matthew	10:4	Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Matthew	10:5	These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them, "Go nowhere among the Gentiles and enter no town of the Samaritans,
Matthew	10:6	but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Matthew	10:7	And proclaim as you go, saying, 'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'
Matthew	10:8	Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying; give without pay.
Matthew	10:9	Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts,
Matthew	10:10	no bag for your journey, nor two tunics nor sandals nor a staff, for the laborer deserves his food.
Matthew	10:11	And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart.
Matthew	10:12	As you enter the house, greet it.
Matthew	10:13	And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
Matthew	10:14	And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town.
Matthew	10:15	Truly, I say to you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town.
Matthew	10:16	"Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.
Matthew	10:17	Beware of men, for they will deliver you over to courts and flog you in their synagogues,
Matthew	10:18	and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them and the Gentiles.
Matthew	10:19	When they deliver you over, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour.
Matthew	10:20	For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
Matthew	10:21	Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death,
Matthew	10:22	and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Matthew	10:23	When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next, for truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
Matthew	10:24	"A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.
Matthew	10:25	It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they malign those of his household.
Matthew	10:26	"So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Matthew	10:27	What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops.
Matthew	10:28	And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Matthew	10:29	Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father.
Matthew	10:30	But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Matthew	10:31	Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Matthew	10:32	So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven,
Matthew	10:33	but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	10:34	"Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Matthew	10:35	For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
Matthew	10:36	And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.
Matthew	10:37	Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
Matthew	10:38	And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
Matthew	10:39	Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Matthew	10:40	"Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me.
Matthew	10:41	The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person's reward.
Matthew	10:42	And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward."
Matthew	11:1	When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities.
Matthew	11:2	Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples
Matthew	11:3	and said to him, "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?"
Matthew	11:4	And Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John what you hear and see:
Matthew	11:5	the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them.
Matthew	11:6	And blessed is the one who is not offended by me."
Matthew	11:7	As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
Matthew	11:8	What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.
Matthew	11:9	What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Matthew	11:10	This is he of whom it is written, "'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.'
Matthew	11:11	Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
Matthew	11:12	From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force.
Matthew	11:13	For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John,
Matthew	11:14	and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come.
Matthew	11:15	He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Matthew	11:16	"But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates,
Matthew	11:17	"'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.'
Matthew	11:18	For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.'
Matthew	11:19	The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds."
Matthew	11:20	Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent.
Matthew	11:21	"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Matthew	11:22	But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Matthew	11:23	And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
Matthew	11:24	But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you."
Matthew	11:25	At that time Jesus declared, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children;
Matthew	11:26	yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.
Matthew	11:27	All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.
Matthew	11:28	Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Matthew	11:29	Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
Matthew	11:30	For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
Matthew	12:1	At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.
Matthew	12:2	But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, "Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath."
Matthew	12:3	He said to them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him:
Matthew	12:4	how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
Matthew	12:5	Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless?
Matthew	12:6	I tell you, something greater than the temple is here.
Matthew	12:7	And if you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would not have condemned the guiltless.
Matthew	12:8	For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."
Matthew	12:9	He went on from there and entered their synagogue.
Matthew	12:10	And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?"--so that they might accuse him.
Matthew	12:11	He said to them, "Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?
Matthew	12:12	Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath."
Matthew	12:13	Then he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.
Matthew	12:14	But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him, how to destroy him.
Matthew	12:15	Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all
Matthew	12:16	and ordered them not to make him known.
Matthew	12:17	This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah:
Matthew	12:18	"Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my Spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles.
Matthew	12:19	He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets;
Matthew	12:20	a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to victory;
Matthew	12:21	and in his name the Gentiles will hope."
Matthew	12:22	Then a demon-oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, and he healed him, so that the man spoke and saw.
Matthew	12:23	And all the people were amazed, and said, "Can this be the Son of David?"
Matthew	12:24	But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, "It is only by Beelzebul, the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons."
Matthew	12:25	Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand.
Matthew	12:26	And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
Matthew	12:27	And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.
Matthew	12:28	But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Matthew	12:29	Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house.
Matthew	12:30	Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Matthew	12:31	Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
Matthew	12:32	And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
Matthew	12:33	"Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit.
Matthew	12:34	You brood of vipers! How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
Matthew	12:35	The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil.
Matthew	12:36	I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak,
Matthew	12:37	for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned."
Matthew	12:38	Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying, "Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you."
Matthew	12:39	But he answered them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
Matthew	12:40	For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Matthew	12:41	The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
Matthew	12:42	The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
Matthew	12:43	"When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, but finds none.
Matthew	12:44	Then it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.' And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order.
Matthew	12:45	Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation."
Matthew	12:46	While he was still speaking to the people, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, asking to speak to him.
Matthew	12:48	But he replied to the man who told him, "Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?"
Matthew	12:49	And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
Matthew	12:50	For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother."
Matthew	13:1	That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea.
Matthew	13:2	And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach.
Matthew	13:3	And he told them many things in parables, saying: "A sower went out to sow.
Matthew	13:4	And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them.
Matthew	13:5	Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, since they had no depth of soil,
Matthew	13:6	but when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root, they withered away.
Matthew	13:7	Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them.
Matthew	13:8	Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
Matthew	13:9	He who has ears, let him hear."
Matthew	13:10	Then the disciples came and said to him, "Why do you speak to them in parables?"
Matthew	13:11	And he answered them, "To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given.
Matthew	13:12	For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Matthew	13:13	This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.
Matthew	13:14	Indeed, in their case the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says: "'You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.
Matthew	13:15	For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.'
Matthew	13:16	But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear.
Matthew	13:17	Truly, I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
Matthew	13:18	"Hear then the parable of the sower:
Matthew	13:19	When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path.
Matthew	13:20	As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy,
Matthew	13:21	yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.
Matthew	13:22	As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Matthew	13:23	As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty."
Matthew	13:24	He put another parable before them, saying, "The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field,
Matthew	13:25	but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away.
Matthew	13:26	So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also.
Matthew	13:27	And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, 'Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?'
Matthew	13:28	He said to them, 'An enemy has done this.' So the servants said to him, 'Then do you want us to go and gather them?'
Matthew	13:29	But he said, 'No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them.
Matthew	13:30	Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.'"
Matthew	13:31	He put another parable before them, saying, "The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field.
Matthew	13:32	It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches."
Matthew	13:33	He told them another parable. "The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened."
Matthew	13:34	All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables; indeed, he said nothing to them without a parable.
Matthew	13:35	This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet: "I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter what has been hidden since the foundation of the world."
Matthew	13:36	Then he left the crowds and went into the house. And his disciples came to him, saying, "Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field."
Matthew	13:37	He answered, "The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.
Matthew	13:38	The field is the world, and the good seed is the children of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one,
Matthew	13:39	and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the close of the age, and the reapers are angels.
Matthew	13:40	Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the close of the age.
Matthew	13:41	The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all law-breakers,
Matthew	13:42	and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew	13:43	Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.
Matthew	13:44	"The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.
Matthew	13:45	"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls,
Matthew	13:46	who, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
Matthew	13:47	"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind.
Matthew	13:48	When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers but threw away the bad.
Matthew	13:49	So it will be at the close of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous
Matthew	13:50	and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew	13:51	"Have you understood all these things?" They said to him, "Yes."
Matthew	13:52	And he said to them, "Therefore every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house, who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old."
Matthew	13:53	And when Jesus had finished these parables, he went away from there,
Matthew	13:54	and coming to his hometown he taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, "Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works?
Matthew	13:55	Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And are not his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?
Matthew	13:56	And are not all his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?"
Matthew	13:57	And they took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household."
Matthew	13:58	And he did not do many mighty works there, because of their unbelief.
Matthew	14:1	At that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus,
Matthew	14:2	and he said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him."
Matthew	14:3	For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife,
Matthew	14:4	because John had been saying to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."
Matthew	14:5	And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a prophet.
Matthew	14:6	But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod,
Matthew	14:7	so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask.
Matthew	14:8	Prompted by her mother, she said, "Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter."
Matthew	14:9	And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given.
Matthew	14:10	He sent and had John beheaded in the prison,
Matthew	14:11	and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
Matthew	14:12	And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus.
Matthew	14:13	Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns.
Matthew	14:14	When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick.
Matthew	14:15	Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, "This is a desolate place, and the day is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves."
Matthew	14:16	But Jesus said, "They need not go away; you give them something to eat."
Matthew	14:17	They said to him, "We have only five loaves here and two fish."
Matthew	14:18	And he said, "Bring them here to me."
Matthew	14:19	Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Matthew	14:20	And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over.
Matthew	14:21	And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
Matthew	14:22	Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowds.
Matthew	14:23	And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone,
Matthew	14:24	but the boat by this time was a long way from the land, beaten by the waves, for the wind was against them.
Matthew	14:25	And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea.
Matthew	14:26	But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, "It is a ghost!" and they cried out in fear.
Matthew	14:27	But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, "Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid."
Matthew	14:28	And Peter answered him, "Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water."
Matthew	14:29	He said, "Come." So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus.
Matthew	14:30	But when he saw the wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, "Lord, save me."
Matthew	14:31	Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, "O you of little faith, why did you doubt?"
Matthew	14:32	And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased.
Matthew	14:33	And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, "Truly you are the Son of God."
Matthew	14:34	And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret.
Matthew	14:35	And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent around to all that region and brought to him all who were sick
Matthew	14:36	and implored him that they might only touch the fringe of his garment. And as many as touched it were made well.
Matthew	15:1	Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said,
Matthew	15:2	"Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat."
Matthew	15:3	He answered them, "And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?
Matthew	15:4	For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.'
Matthew	15:5	But you say, 'If anyone tells his father or his mother, What you would have gained from me is given to God,
Matthew	15:6	he need not honor his father.' So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God.
Matthew	15:7	You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, when he said:
Matthew	15:8	"'This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
Matthew	15:9	in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.'"
Matthew	15:10	And he called the people to him and said to them, "Hear and understand:
Matthew	15:11	it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person."
Matthew	15:12	Then the disciples came and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?"
Matthew	15:13	He answered, "Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up.
Matthew	15:14	Let them alone; they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit."
Matthew	15:15	But Peter said to him, "Explain the parable to us."
Matthew	15:16	And he said, "Are you also still without understanding?
Matthew	15:17	Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled?
Matthew	15:18	But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person.
Matthew	15:19	For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander.
Matthew	15:20	These are what defile a person. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone."
Matthew	15:21	And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon.
Matthew	15:22	And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, "Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David; my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon."
Matthew	15:23	But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, "Send her away, for she is crying out after us."
Matthew	15:24	He answered, "I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel."
Matthew	15:25	But she came and knelt before him, saying, "Lord, help me."
Matthew	15:26	And he answered, "It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."
Matthew	15:27	She said, "Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters' table."
Matthew	15:28	Then Jesus answered her, "O woman, great is your faith! Be it done for you as you desire." And her daughter was healed instantly.
Matthew	15:29	Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee. And he went up on the mountain and sat down there.
Matthew	15:30	And great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they put them at his feet, and he healed them,
Matthew	15:31	so that the crowd wondered, when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
Matthew	15:32	Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, "I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way."
Matthew	15:33	And the disciples said to him, "Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd?"
Matthew	15:34	And Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven, and a few small fish."
Matthew	15:35	And directing the crowd to sit down on the ground,
Matthew	15:36	he took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given thanks he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Matthew	15:37	And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over.
Matthew	15:38	Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
Matthew	15:39	And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.
Matthew	16:1	And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
Matthew	16:2	He answered them, "When it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.'
Matthew	16:3	And in the morning, 'It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.' You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times.
Matthew	16:4	An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah." So he left them and departed.
Matthew	16:5	When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread.
Matthew	16:6	Jesus said to them, "Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees."
Matthew	16:7	And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, "We brought no bread."
Matthew	16:8	But Jesus, aware of this, said, "O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread?
Matthew	16:9	Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you gathered?
Matthew	16:10	Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered?
Matthew	16:11	How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees."
Matthew	16:12	Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Matthew	16:13	Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, "Who do people say that the Son of Man is?"
Matthew	16:14	And they said, "Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets."
Matthew	16:15	He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?"
Matthew	16:16	Simon Peter replied, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."
Matthew	16:17	And Jesus answered him, "Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	16:18	And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
Matthew	16:19	I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven."
Matthew	16:20	Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ.
Matthew	16:21	From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised.
Matthew	16:22	And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, "Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never happen to you."
Matthew	16:23	But he turned and said to Peter, "Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man."
Matthew	16:24	Then Jesus told his disciples, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
Matthew	16:25	For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Matthew	16:26	For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his life? Or what shall a man give in return for his life?
Matthew	16:27	For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done.
Matthew	16:28	Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom."
Matthew	17:1	And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James, and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves.
Matthew	17:2	And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light.
Matthew	17:3	And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
Matthew	17:4	And Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah."
Matthew	17:5	He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; listen to him."
Matthew	17:6	When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified.
Matthew	17:7	But Jesus came and touched them, saying, "Rise, and have no fear."
Matthew	17:8	And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.
Matthew	17:9	And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, "Tell no one the vision, until the Son of Man is raised from the dead."
Matthew	17:10	And the disciples asked him, "Then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?"
Matthew	17:11	He answered, "Elijah does come, and he will restore all things.
Matthew	17:12	But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands."
Matthew	17:13	Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist.
Matthew	17:14	And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and, kneeling before him,
Matthew	17:15	said, "Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water.
Matthew	17:16	And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him."
Matthew	17:17	And Jesus answered, "O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me."
Matthew	17:18	And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly.
Matthew	17:19	Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
Matthew	17:20	He said to them, "Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you."
Matthew	17:21	See Footnote
Matthew	17:22	As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men,
Matthew	17:23	and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day." And they were greatly distressed.
Matthew	17:24	When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the half-shekel tax went up to Peter and said, "Does your teacher not pay the tax?"
Matthew	17:25	He said, "Yes." And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others?"
Matthew	17:26	And when he said, "From others," Jesus said to him, "Then the sons are free.
Matthew	17:27	However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself."
Matthew	18:1	At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?"
Matthew	18:2	And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them
Matthew	18:3	and said, "Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	18:4	Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	18:5	"Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me,
Matthew	18:6	but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.
Matthew	18:7	"Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes!
Matthew	18:8	And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.
Matthew	18:9	And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire.
Matthew	18:10	"See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew	18:11	See Footnote
Matthew	18:12	What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?
Matthew	18:13	And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray.
Matthew	18:14	So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Matthew	18:15	"If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.
Matthew	18:16	But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Matthew	18:17	If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.
Matthew	18:18	Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Matthew	18:19	Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven.
Matthew	18:20	For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them."
Matthew	18:21	Then Peter came up and said to him, "Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?"
Matthew	18:22	Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
Matthew	18:23	"Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants.
Matthew	18:24	When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
Matthew	18:25	And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made.
Matthew	18:26	So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.'
Matthew	18:27	And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
Matthew	18:28	But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, 'Pay what you owe.'
Matthew	18:29	So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you.'
Matthew	18:30	He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.
Matthew	18:31	When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place.
Matthew	18:32	Then his master summoned him and said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me.
Matthew	18:33	And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?'
Matthew	18:34	And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt.
Matthew	18:35	So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart."
Matthew	19:1	Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan.
Matthew	19:2	And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
Matthew	19:3	And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, "Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?"
Matthew	19:4	He answered, "Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female,
Matthew	19:5	and said, 'Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh'?
Matthew	19:6	So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate."
Matthew	19:7	They said to him, "Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away?"
Matthew	19:8	He said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so.
Matthew	19:9	And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery."
Matthew	19:10	The disciples said to him, "If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry."
Matthew	19:11	But he said to them, "Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given.
Matthew	19:12	For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it."
Matthew	19:13	Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people,
Matthew	19:14	but Jesus said, "Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven."
Matthew	19:15	And he laid his hands on them and went away.
Matthew	19:16	And behold, a man came up to him, saying, "Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life?"
Matthew	19:17	And he said to him, "Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments."
Matthew	19:18	He said to him, "Which ones?" And Jesus said, "You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,
Matthew	19:19	Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Matthew	19:20	The young man said to him, "All these I have kept. What do I still lack?"
Matthew	19:21	Jesus said to him, "If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Matthew	19:22	When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Matthew	19:23	And Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew	19:24	Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."
Matthew	19:25	When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?"
Matthew	19:26	But Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."
Matthew	19:27	Then Peter said in reply, "See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have?"
Matthew	19:28	Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Matthew	19:29	And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life.
Matthew	19:30	But many who are first will be last, and the last first.
Matthew	20:1	"For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
Matthew	20:2	After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
Matthew	20:3	And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
Matthew	20:4	and to them he said, 'You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.'
Matthew	20:5	So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same.
Matthew	20:6	And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, 'Why do you stand here idle all day?'
Matthew	20:7	They said to him, 'Because no one has hired us.' He said to them, 'You go into the vineyard too.'
Matthew	20:8	And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, 'Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first.'
Matthew	20:9	And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius.
Matthew	20:10	Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius.
Matthew	20:11	And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house,
Matthew	20:12	saying, 'These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.'
Matthew	20:13	But he replied to one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?
Matthew	20:14	Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you.
Matthew	20:15	Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?'
Matthew	20:16	So the last will be first, and the first last."
Matthew	20:17	And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them,
Matthew	20:18	"See, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death
Matthew	20:19	and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day."
Matthew	20:20	Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him she asked him for something.
Matthew	20:21	And he said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom."
Matthew	20:22	Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink?" They said to him, "We are able."
Matthew	20:23	He said to them, "You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father."
Matthew	20:24	And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers.
Matthew	20:25	But Jesus called them to him and said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Matthew	20:26	It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
Matthew	20:27	and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
Matthew	20:28	even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
Matthew	20:29	And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
Matthew	20:30	And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside, and when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
Matthew	20:31	The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent, but they cried out all the more, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
Matthew	20:32	And stopping, Jesus called them and said, "What do you want me to do for you?"
Matthew	20:33	They said to him, "Lord, let our eyes be opened."
Matthew	20:34	And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him.
Matthew	21:1	Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
Matthew	21:2	saying to them, "Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me.
Matthew	21:3	If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, 'The Lord needs them,' and he will send them at once."
Matthew	21:4	This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying,
Matthew	21:5	"Say to the daughter of Zion, 'Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey, and on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden.'"
Matthew	21:6	The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them.
Matthew	21:7	They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them.
Matthew	21:8	Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
Matthew	21:9	And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, "Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!"
Matthew	21:10	And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, "Who is this?"
Matthew	21:11	And the crowds said, "This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee."
Matthew	21:12	And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons.
Matthew	21:13	He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' but you make it a den of robbers."
Matthew	21:14	And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
Matthew	21:15	But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, "Hosanna to the Son of David!" they were indignant,
Matthew	21:16	and they said to him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" And Jesus said to them, "Yes; have you never read, "'Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise'?"
Matthew	21:17	And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
Matthew	21:18	In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry.
Matthew	21:19	And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And he said to it, "May no fruit ever come from you again!" And the fig tree withered at once.
Matthew	21:20	When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree wither at once?"
Matthew	21:21	And Jesus answered them, "Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, 'Be taken up and thrown into the sea,' it will happen.
Matthew	21:22	And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith."
Matthew	21:23	And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching, and said, "By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority?"
Matthew	21:24	Jesus answered them, "I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew	21:25	The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man?" And they discussed it among themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say to us, 'Why then did you not believe him?'
Matthew	21:26	But if we say, 'From man,' we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet."
Matthew	21:27	So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And he said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew	21:28	"What do you think? A man had two sons. And he went to the first and said, 'Son, go and work in the vineyard today.'
Matthew	21:29	And he answered, 'I will not,' but afterward he changed his mind and went.
Matthew	21:30	And he went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, 'I go, sir,' but did not go.
Matthew	21:31	Which of the two did the will of his father?" They said, "The first." Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you.
Matthew	21:32	For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. And even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds and believe him.
Matthew	21:33	"Hear another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a winepress in it and built a tower and leased it to tenants, and went into another country.
Matthew	21:34	When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit.
Matthew	21:35	And the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another.
Matthew	21:36	Again he sent other servants, more than the first. And they did the same to them.
Matthew	21:37	Finally he sent his son to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.'
Matthew	21:38	But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance.'
Matthew	21:39	And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Matthew	21:40	When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?"
Matthew	21:41	They said to him, "He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons."
Matthew	21:42	Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the Scriptures: "'The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?
Matthew	21:43	Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits.
Matthew	21:44	And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him."
Matthew	21:45	When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them.
Matthew	21:46	And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds, because they held him to be a prophet.
Matthew	22:1	And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying,
Matthew	22:2	"The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son,
Matthew	22:3	and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come.
Matthew	22:4	Again he sent other servants, saying, 'Tell those who are invited, See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.'
Matthew	22:5	But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,
Matthew	22:6	while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
Matthew	22:7	The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Matthew	22:8	Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
Matthew	22:9	Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.'
Matthew	22:10	And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests.
Matthew	22:11	"But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment.
Matthew	22:12	And he said to him, 'Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?' And he was speechless.
Matthew	22:13	Then the king said to the attendants, 'Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'
Matthew	22:14	For many are called, but few are chosen."
Matthew	22:15	Then the Pharisees went and plotted how to entangle him in his talk.
Matthew	22:16	And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and you do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances.
Matthew	22:17	Tell us, then, what you think. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"
Matthew	22:18	But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, "Why put me to the test, you hypocrites?
Matthew	22:19	Show me the coin for the tax." And they brought him a denarius.
Matthew	22:20	And Jesus said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?"
Matthew	22:21	They said, "Caesar's." Then he said to them, "Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
Matthew	22:22	When they heard it, they marveled. And they left him and went away.
Matthew	22:23	The same day Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they asked him a question,
Matthew	22:24	saying, "Teacher, Moses said, 'If a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up children for his brother.'
Matthew	22:25	Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, and having no children left his wife to his brother.
Matthew	22:26	So too the second and third, down to the seventh.
Matthew	22:27	After them all, the woman died.
Matthew	22:28	In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her."
Matthew	22:29	But Jesus answered them, "You are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God.
Matthew	22:30	For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Matthew	22:31	And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God:
Matthew	22:32	'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? He is not God of the dead, but of the living."
Matthew	22:33	And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
Matthew	22:34	But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together.
Matthew	22:35	And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him.
Matthew	22:36	"Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?"
Matthew	22:37	And he said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.
Matthew	22:38	This is the great and first commandment.
Matthew	22:39	And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Matthew	22:40	On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets."
Matthew	22:41	Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
Matthew	22:42	saying, "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They said to him, "The son of David."
Matthew	22:43	He said to them, "How is it then that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying,
Matthew	22:44	"'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet'?
Matthew	22:45	If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?"
Matthew	22:46	And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions.
Matthew	23:1	Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples,
Matthew	23:2	"The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat,
Matthew	23:3	so practice and observe whatever they tell you--but not what they do. For they preach, but do not practice.
Matthew	23:4	They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger.
Matthew	23:5	They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long,
Matthew	23:6	and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues
Matthew	23:7	and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others.
Matthew	23:8	But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers.
Matthew	23:9	And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Matthew	23:10	Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ.
Matthew	23:11	The greatest among you shall be your servant.
Matthew	23:12	Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
Matthew	23:13	"But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in.
Matthew	23:14	See Footnote
Matthew	23:15	Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.
Matthew	23:16	"Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.'
Matthew	23:17	You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?
Matthew	23:18	And you say, 'If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath.'
Matthew	23:19	You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?
Matthew	23:20	So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.
Matthew	23:21	And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it.
Matthew	23:22	And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it.
Matthew	23:23	"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
Matthew	23:24	You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
Matthew	23:25	"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence.
Matthew	23:26	You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean.
Matthew	23:27	"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness.
Matthew	23:28	So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
Matthew	23:29	"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous,
Matthew	23:30	saying, 'If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.'
Matthew	23:31	Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets.
Matthew	23:32	Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
Matthew	23:33	You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell?
Matthew	23:34	Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town,
Matthew	23:35	so that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of innocent Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar.
Matthew	23:36	Truly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.
Matthew	23:37	"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!
Matthew	23:38	See, your house is left to you desolate.
Matthew	23:39	For I tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'"
Matthew	24:1	Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple.
Matthew	24:2	But he answered them, "You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."
Matthew	24:3	As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, "Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?"
Matthew	24:4	And Jesus answered them, "See that no one leads you astray.
Matthew	24:5	For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and they will lead many astray.
Matthew	24:6	And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet.
Matthew	24:7	For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places.
Matthew	24:8	All these are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Matthew	24:9	"Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake.
Matthew	24:10	And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another.
Matthew	24:11	And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray.
Matthew	24:12	And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold.
Matthew	24:13	But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Matthew	24:14	And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come.
Matthew	24:15	"So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand),
Matthew	24:16	then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Matthew	24:17	Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house,
Matthew	24:18	and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Matthew	24:19	And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Matthew	24:20	Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath.
Matthew	24:21	For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be.
Matthew	24:22	And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short.
Matthew	24:23	Then if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'There he is!' do not believe it.
Matthew	24:24	For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
Matthew	24:25	See, I have told you beforehand.
Matthew	24:26	So, if they say to you, 'Look, he is in the wilderness,' do not go out. If they say, 'Look, he is in the inner rooms,' do not believe it.
Matthew	24:27	For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew	24:28	Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.
Matthew	24:29	"Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Matthew	24:30	Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
Matthew	24:31	And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
Matthew	24:32	"From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near.
Matthew	24:33	So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Matthew	24:34	Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Matthew	24:35	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Matthew	24:36	"But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only.
Matthew	24:37	As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew	24:38	For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark,
Matthew	24:39	and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew	24:40	Then two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one left.
Matthew	24:41	Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be taken and one left.
Matthew	24:42	Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
Matthew	24:43	But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into.
Matthew	24:44	Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
Matthew	24:45	"Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time?
Matthew	24:46	Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Matthew	24:47	Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Matthew	24:48	But if that wicked servant says to himself, 'My master is delayed,'
Matthew	24:49	and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards,
Matthew	24:50	the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know
Matthew	24:51	and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew	25:1	"Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom.
Matthew	25:2	Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
Matthew	25:3	For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them,
Matthew	25:4	but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps.
Matthew	25:5	As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
Matthew	25:6	But at midnight there was a cry, 'Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.'
Matthew	25:7	Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps.
Matthew	25:8	And the foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.'
Matthew	25:9	But the wise answered, saying, 'Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves.'
Matthew	25:10	And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut.
Matthew	25:11	Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, 'Lord, lord, open to us.'
Matthew	25:12	But he answered, 'Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.'
Matthew	25:13	Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.
Matthew	25:14	"For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property.
Matthew	25:15	To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away.
Matthew	25:16	He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more.
Matthew	25:17	So also he who had the two talents made two talents more.
Matthew	25:18	But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
Matthew	25:19	Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them.
Matthew	25:20	And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, 'Master, you delivered to me five talents; here I have made five talents more.'
Matthew	25:21	His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.'
Matthew	25:22	And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, 'Master, you delivered to me two talents; here I have made two talents more.'
Matthew	25:23	His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.'
Matthew	25:24	He also who had received the one talent came forward, saying, 'Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed,
Matthew	25:25	so I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.'
Matthew	25:26	But his master answered him, 'You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sowed and gather where I scattered no seed?
Matthew	25:27	Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest.
Matthew	25:28	So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
Matthew	25:29	For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Matthew	25:30	And cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'
Matthew	25:31	"When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne.
Matthew	25:32	Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
Matthew	25:33	And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.
Matthew	25:34	Then the King will say to those on his right, 'Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Matthew	25:35	For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me,
Matthew	25:36	I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.'
Matthew	25:37	Then the righteous will answer him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink?
Matthew	25:38	And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you?
Matthew	25:39	And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?'
Matthew	25:40	And the King will answer them, 'Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.'
Matthew	25:41	"Then he will say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Matthew	25:42	For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,
Matthew	25:43	I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.'
Matthew	25:44	Then they also will answer, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?'
Matthew	25:45	Then he will answer them, saying, 'Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.'
Matthew	25:46	And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."
Matthew	26:1	When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples,
Matthew	26:2	"You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified."
Matthew	26:3	Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas,
Matthew	26:4	and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him.
Matthew	26:5	But they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people."
Matthew	26:6	Now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper,
Matthew	26:7	a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at table.
Matthew	26:8	And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, "Why this waste?
Matthew	26:9	For this could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor."
Matthew	26:10	But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me.
Matthew	26:11	For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.
Matthew	26:12	In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial.
Matthew	26:13	Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her."
Matthew	26:14	Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
Matthew	26:15	and said, "What will you give me if I deliver him over to you?" And they paid him thirty pieces of silver.
Matthew	26:16	And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him.
Matthew	26:17	Now on the first day of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover?"
Matthew	26:18	He said, "Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, 'The Teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.'"
Matthew	26:19	And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover.
Matthew	26:20	When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve.
Matthew	26:21	And as they were eating, he said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me."
Matthew	26:22	And they were very sorrowful and began to say to him one after another, "Is it I, Lord?"
Matthew	26:23	He answered, "He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me.
Matthew	26:24	The Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born."
Matthew	26:25	Judas, who would betray him, answered, "Is it I, Rabbi?" He said to him, "You have said so."
Matthew	26:26	Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, "Take, eat; this is my body."
Matthew	26:27	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, "Drink of it, all of you,
Matthew	26:28	for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
Matthew	26:29	I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom."
Matthew	26:30	And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Matthew	26:31	Then Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.'
Matthew	26:32	But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee."
Matthew	26:33	Peter answered him, "Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away."
Matthew	26:34	Jesus said to him, "Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times."
Matthew	26:35	Peter said to him, "Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you!" And all the disciples said the same.
Matthew	26:36	Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, "Sit here, while I go over there and pray."
Matthew	26:37	And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled.
Matthew	26:38	Then he said to them, "My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me."
Matthew	26:39	And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, "My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will."
Matthew	26:40	And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, "So, could you not watch with me one hour?
Matthew	26:41	Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."
Matthew	26:42	Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, "My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done."
Matthew	26:43	And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
Matthew	26:44	So, leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again.
Matthew	26:45	Then he came to the disciples and said to them, "Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Matthew	26:46	Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
Matthew	26:47	While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Matthew	26:48	Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, "The one I will kiss is the man; seize him."
Matthew	26:49	And he came up to Jesus at once and said, "Greetings, Rabbi!" And he kissed him.
Matthew	26:50	Jesus said to him, "Friend, do what you came to do." Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him.
Matthew	26:51	And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Matthew	26:52	Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Matthew	26:53	Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?
Matthew	26:54	But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?"
Matthew	26:55	At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me.
Matthew	26:56	But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled." Then all the disciples left him and fled.
Matthew	26:57	Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered.
Matthew	26:58	And Peter was following him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and going inside he sat with the guards to see the end.
Matthew	26:59	Now the chief priests and the whole Council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death,
Matthew	26:60	but they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward
Matthew	26:61	and said, "This man said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to rebuild it in three days.'"
Matthew	26:62	And the high priest stood up and said, "Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?"
Matthew	26:63	But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, "I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God."
Matthew	26:64	Jesus said to him, "You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven."
Matthew	26:65	Then the high priest tore his robes and said, "He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have now heard his blasphemy.
Matthew	26:66	What is your judgment?" They answered, "He deserves death."
Matthew	26:67	Then they spit in his face and struck him. And some slapped him,
Matthew	26:68	saying, "Prophesy to us, you Christ! Who is it that struck you?"
Matthew	26:69	Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl came up to him and said, "You also were with Jesus the Galilean."
Matthew	26:70	But he denied it before them all, saying, "I do not know what you mean."
Matthew	26:71	And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders, "This man was with Jesus of Nazareth."
Matthew	26:72	And again he denied it with an oath: "I do not know the man."
Matthew	26:73	After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, "Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you."
Matthew	26:74	Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know the man." And immediately the rooster crowed.
Matthew	26:75	And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, "Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." And he went out and wept bitterly.
Matthew	27:1	When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death.
Matthew	27:2	And they bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the governor.
Matthew	27:3	Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
Matthew	27:4	saying, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." They said, "What is that to us? See to it yourself."
Matthew	27:5	And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed, and he went and hanged himself.
Matthew	27:6	But the chief priests, taking the pieces of silver, said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is blood money."
Matthew	27:7	So they took counsel and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.
Matthew	27:8	Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
Matthew	27:9	Then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel,
Matthew	27:10	and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me."
Matthew	27:11	Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" Jesus said, "You have said so."
Matthew	27:12	But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer.
Matthew	27:13	Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?"
Matthew	27:14	But he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed.
Matthew	27:15	Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted.
Matthew	27:16	And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.
Matthew	27:17	So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release for you: Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?"
Matthew	27:18	For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered him up.
Matthew	27:19	Besides, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, "Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a dream."
Matthew	27:20	Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus.
Matthew	27:21	The governor again said to them, "Which of the two do you want me to release for you?" And they said, "Barabbas."
Matthew	27:22	Pilate said to them, "Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all said, "Let him be crucified!"
Matthew	27:23	And he said, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Let him be crucified!"
Matthew	27:24	So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, "I am innocent of this man's blood; see to it yourselves."
Matthew	27:25	And all the people answered, "His blood be on us and on our children!"
Matthew	27:26	Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified.
Matthew	27:27	Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him.
Matthew	27:28	And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him,
Matthew	27:29	and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
Matthew	27:30	And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head.
Matthew	27:31	And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him.
Matthew	27:32	As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his cross.
Matthew	27:33	And when they came to a place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull),
Matthew	27:34	they offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it.
Matthew	27:35	And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots.
Matthew	27:36	Then they sat down and kept watch over him there.
Matthew	27:37	And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, "This is Jesus, the King of the Jews."
Matthew	27:38	Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.
Matthew	27:39	And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads
Matthew	27:40	and saying, "You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross."
Matthew	27:41	So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him, saying,
Matthew	27:42	"He saved others; he cannot save himself. He is the King of Israel; let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him.
Matthew	27:43	He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him. For he said, 'I am the Son of God.'"
Matthew	27:44	And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.
Matthew	27:45	Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
Matthew	27:46	And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?" that is, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
Matthew	27:47	And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, "This man is calling Elijah."
Matthew	27:48	And one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink.
Matthew	27:49	But the others said, "Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him."
Matthew	27:50	And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.
Matthew	27:51	And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split.
Matthew	27:52	The tombs also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised,
Matthew	27:53	and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.
Matthew	27:54	When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe and said, "Truly this was the Son of God!"
Matthew	27:55	There were also many women there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him,
Matthew	27:56	among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Joseph and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
Matthew	27:57	When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus.
Matthew	27:58	He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.
Matthew	27:59	And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud
Matthew	27:60	and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away.
Matthew	27:61	Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb.
Matthew	27:62	Next day, that is, after the day of Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate
Matthew	27:63	and said, "Sir, we remember how that impostor said, while he was still alive, 'After three days I will rise.'
Matthew	27:64	Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people, 'He has risen from the dead,' and the last fraud will be worse than the first."
Matthew	27:65	Pilate said to them, "You have a guard of soldiers. Go, make it as secure as you can."
Matthew	27:66	So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.
Matthew	28:1	Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb.
Matthew	28:2	And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it.
Matthew	28:3	His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.
Matthew	28:4	And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men.
Matthew	28:5	But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.
Matthew	28:6	He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.
Matthew	28:7	Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told you."
Matthew	28:8	So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.
Matthew	28:9	And behold, Jesus met them and said, "Greetings!" And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him.
Matthew	28:10	Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me."
Matthew	28:11	While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place.
Matthew	28:12	And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers
Matthew	28:13	and said, "Tell people, 'His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep.'
Matthew	28:14	And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble."
Matthew	28:15	So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.
Matthew	28:16	Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them.
Matthew	28:17	And when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted.
Matthew	28:18	And Jesus came and said to them, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Matthew	28:19	Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
Matthew	28:20	teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age."
Mark	1:1	The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Mark	1:2	As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, "Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way,
Mark	1:3	the voice of one crying in the wilderness: 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight,'"
Mark	1:4	John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
Mark	1:5	And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mark	1:6	Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey.
Mark	1:7	And he preached, saying, "After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
Mark	1:8	I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."
Mark	1:9	In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
Mark	1:10	And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens opening and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.
Mark	1:11	And a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
Mark	1:12	The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness.
Mark	1:13	And he was in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him.
Mark	1:14	Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
Mark	1:15	and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel."
Mark	1:16	Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mark	1:17	And Jesus said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men."
Mark	1:18	And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Mark	1:19	And going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets.
Mark	1:20	And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him.
Mark	1:21	And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching.
Mark	1:22	And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes.
Mark	1:23	And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit. And he cried out,
Mark	1:24	"What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are--the Holy One of God."
Mark	1:25	But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, and come out of him!"
Mark	1:26	And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him.
Mark	1:27	And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him."
Mark	1:28	And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee.
Mark	1:29	And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Mark	1:30	Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.
Mark	1:31	And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her, and she began to serve them.
Mark	1:32	That evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons.
Mark	1:33	And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
Mark	1:34	And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. And he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him.
Mark	1:35	And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed.
Mark	1:36	And Simon and those who were with him searched for him,
Mark	1:37	and they found him and said to him, "Everyone is looking for you."
Mark	1:38	And he said to them, "Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out."
Mark	1:39	And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.
Mark	1:40	And a leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling said to him, "If you will, you can make me clean."
Mark	1:41	Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, "I will; be clean."
Mark	1:42	And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean.
Mark	1:43	And Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once,
Mark	1:44	and said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Mark	1:45	But he went out and began to talk freely about it, and to spread the news, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but was out in desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter.
Mark	2:1	And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home.
Mark	2:2	And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them.
Mark	2:3	And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men.
Mark	2:4	And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay.
Mark	2:5	And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, "My son, your sins are forgiven."
Mark	2:6	Now some of the scribes were sitting there, questioning in their hearts,
Mark	2:7	"Why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God alone?"
Mark	2:8	And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, "Why do you question these things in your hearts?
Mark	2:9	Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise, take up your bed and walk'?
Mark	2:10	But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"--he said to the paralytic--
Mark	2:11	"I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home."
Mark	2:12	And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, "We never saw anything like this!"
Mark	2:13	He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them.
Mark	2:14	And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, "Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
Mark	2:15	And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him.
Mark	2:16	And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, "Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
Mark	2:17	And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners."
Mark	2:18	Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, "Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"
Mark	2:19	And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
Mark	2:20	The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
Mark	2:21	No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
Mark	2:22	And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins--and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins."
Mark	2:23	One Sabbath he was going through the grainfields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain.
Mark	2:24	And the Pharisees were saying to him, "Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath?"
Mark	2:25	And he said to them, "Have you never read what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him:
Mark	2:26	how he entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?"
Mark	2:27	And he said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
Mark	2:28	So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath."
Mark	3:1	Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand.
Mark	3:2	And they watched Jesus, to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him.
Mark	3:3	And he said to the man with the withered hand, "Come here."
Mark	3:4	And he said to them, "Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?" But they were silent.
Mark	3:5	And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
Mark	3:6	The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him.
Mark	3:7	Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea
Mark	3:8	and Jerusalem and Idumea and from beyond the Jordan and from around Tyre and Sidon. When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him.
Mark	3:9	And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him,
Mark	3:10	for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him.
Mark	3:11	And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, "You are the Son of God."
Mark	3:12	And he strictly ordered them not to make him known.
Mark	3:13	And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him.
Mark	3:14	And he appointed twelve (whom he also named apostles) so that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach
Mark	3:15	and have authority to cast out demons.
Mark	3:16	He appointed the twelve: Simon (to whom he gave the name Peter);
Mark	3:17	James the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James (to whom he gave the name Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder);
Mark	3:18	Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
Mark	3:19	and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Mark	3:20	Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat.
Mark	3:21	And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, "He is out of his mind."
Mark	3:22	And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, "He is possessed by Beelzebul," and "by the prince of demons he casts out the demons."
Mark	3:23	And he called them to him and said to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?
Mark	3:24	If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
Mark	3:25	And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand.
Mark	3:26	And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end.
Mark	3:27	But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house.
Mark	3:28	"Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter,
Mark	3:29	but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin"--
Mark	3:30	for they had said, "He has an unclean spirit."
Mark	3:31	And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him.
Mark	3:32	And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, "Your mother and your brothers are outside, seeking you."
Mark	3:33	And he answered them, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"
Mark	3:34	And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
Mark	3:35	Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother."
Mark	4:1	Again he began to teach beside the sea. And a very large crowd gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land.
Mark	4:2	And he was teaching them many things in parables, and in his teaching he said to them:
Mark	4:3	"Listen! A sower went out to sow.
Mark	4:4	And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
Mark	4:5	Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil.
Mark	4:6	And when the sun rose it was scorched, and since it had no root, it withered away.
Mark	4:7	Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain.
Mark	4:8	And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain, growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
Mark	4:9	And he said, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
Mark	4:10	And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables.
Mark	4:11	And he said to them, "To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside everything is in parables,
Mark	4:12	so that "they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven."
Mark	4:13	And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
Mark	4:14	The sower sows the word.
Mark	4:15	And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them.
Mark	4:16	And these are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.
Mark	4:17	And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away.
Mark	4:18	And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word,
Mark	4:19	but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Mark	4:20	But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
Mark	4:21	And he said to them, "Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand?
Mark	4:22	For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret except to come to light.
Mark	4:23	If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear."
Mark	4:24	And he said to them, "Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you.
Mark	4:25	For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away."
Mark	4:26	And he said, "The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground.
Mark	4:27	He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; he knows not how.
Mark	4:28	The earth produces by itself, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
Mark	4:29	But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come."
Mark	4:30	And he said, "With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it?
Mark	4:31	It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth,
Mark	4:32	yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade."
Mark	4:33	With many such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear it.
Mark	4:34	He did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples he explained everything.
Mark	4:35	On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side."
Mark	4:36	And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him.
Mark	4:37	And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling.
Mark	4:38	But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they woke him and said to him, "Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?"
Mark	4:39	And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, "Peace! Be still!" And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.
Mark	4:40	He said to them, "Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith?"
Mark	4:41	And they were filled with great fear and said to one another, "Who then is this, that even wind and sea obey him?"
Mark	5:1	They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gerasenes.
Mark	5:2	And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit.
Mark	5:3	He lived among the tombs. And no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain,
Mark	5:4	for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him.
Mark	5:5	Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out and bruising himself with stones.
Mark	5:6	And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him.
Mark	5:7	And crying out with a loud voice, he said, "What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me."
Mark	5:8	For he was saying to him, "Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!"
Mark	5:9	And Jesus asked him, "What is your name?" He replied, "My name is Legion, for we are many."
Mark	5:10	And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country.
Mark	5:11	Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside,
Mark	5:12	and they begged him, saying, "Send us to the pigs; let us enter them."
Mark	5:13	So he gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered the pigs, and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and were drowned in the sea.
Mark	5:14	The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that had happened.
Mark	5:15	And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had had the legion, sitting there, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Mark	5:16	And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs.
Mark	5:17	And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region.
Mark	5:18	As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him.
Mark	5:19	And he did not permit him but said to him, "Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you."
Mark	5:20	And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled.
Mark	5:21	And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him, and he was beside the sea.
Mark	5:22	Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him, he fell at his feet
Mark	5:23	and implored him earnestly, saying, "My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live."
Mark	5:24	And he went with him.And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.
Mark	5:25	And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years,
Mark	5:26	and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better but rather grew worse.
Mark	5:27	She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment.
Mark	5:28	For she said, "If I touch even his garments, I will be made well."
Mark	5:29	And immediately the flow of blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease.
Mark	5:30	And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the crowd and said, "Who touched my garments?"
Mark	5:31	And his disciples said to him, "You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, 'Who touched me?'"
Mark	5:32	And he looked around to see who had done it.
Mark	5:33	But the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before him and told him the whole truth.
Mark	5:34	And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your disease."
Mark	5:35	While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, "Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?"
Mark	5:36	But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, "Do not fear, only believe."
Mark	5:37	And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
Mark	5:38	They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly.
Mark	5:39	And when he had entered, he said to them, "Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead but sleeping."
Mark	5:40	And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside and took the child's father and mother and those who were with him and went in where the child was.
Mark	5:41	Taking her by the hand he said to her, "Talitha cumi," which means, "Little girl, I say to you, arise."
Mark	5:42	And immediately the girl got up and began walking (for she was twelve years of age), and they were immediately overcome with amazement.
Mark	5:43	And he strictly charged them that no one should know this, and told them to give her something to eat.
Mark	6:1	He went away from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him.
Mark	6:2	And on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished, saying, "Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands?
Mark	6:3	Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us?" And they took offense at him.
Mark	6:4	And Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own household."
Mark	6:5	And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them.
Mark	6:6	And he marveled because of their unbelief.And he went about among the villages teaching.
Mark	6:7	And he called the twelve and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits.
Mark	6:8	He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff--no bread, no bag, no money in their belts--
Mark	6:9	but to wear sandals and not put on two tunics.
Mark	6:10	And he said to them, "Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there.
Mark	6:11	And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a testimony against them."
Mark	6:12	So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent.
Mark	6:13	And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them.
Mark	6:14	King Herod heard of it, for Jesus' name had become known. Some said, "John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him."
Mark	6:15	But others said, "He is Elijah." And others said, "He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old."
Mark	6:16	But when Herod heard of it, he said, "John, whom I beheaded, has been raised."
Mark	6:17	For it was Herod who had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her.
Mark	6:18	For John had been saying to Herod, "It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife."
Mark	6:19	And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death. But she could not,
Mark	6:20	for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly.
Mark	6:21	But an opportunity came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
Mark	6:22	For when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests. And the king said to the girl, "Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you."
Mark	6:23	And he vowed to her, "Whatever you ask me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom."
Mark	6:24	And she went out and said to her mother, "For what should I ask?" And she said, "The head of John the Baptist."
Mark	6:25	And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, "I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter."
Mark	6:26	And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break his word to her.
Mark	6:27	And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head. He went and beheaded him in the prison
Mark	6:28	and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
Mark	6:29	When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.
Mark	6:30	The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught.
Mark	6:31	And he said to them, "Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while." For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.
Mark	6:32	And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves.
Mark	6:33	Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them.
Mark	6:34	When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things.
Mark	6:35	And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, "This is a desolate place, and the hour is now late.
Mark	6:36	Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat."
Mark	6:37	But he answered them, "You give them something to eat." And they said to him, "Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?"
Mark	6:38	And he said to them, "How many loaves do you have? Go and see." And when they had found out, they said, "Five, and two fish."
Mark	6:39	Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass.
Mark	6:40	So they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
Mark	6:41	And taking the five loaves and the two fish he looked up to heaven and said a blessing and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all.
Mark	6:42	And they all ate and were satisfied.
Mark	6:43	And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.
Mark	6:44	And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
Mark	6:45	Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd.
Mark	6:46	And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray.
Mark	6:47	And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land.
Mark	6:48	And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them,
Mark	6:49	but when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out,
Mark	6:50	for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, "Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid."
Mark	6:51	And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they were utterly astounded,
Mark	6:52	for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
Mark	6:53	When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore.
Mark	6:54	And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him
Mark	6:55	and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds to wherever they heard he was.
Mark	6:56	And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or countryside, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment. And as many as touched it were made well.
Mark	7:1	Now when the Pharisees gathered to him, with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem,
Mark	7:2	they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed.
Mark	7:3	(For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands, holding to the tradition of the elders,
Mark	7:4	and when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches. )
Mark	7:5	And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, "Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands?"
Mark	7:6	And he said to them, "Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, "'This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
Mark	7:7	in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.'
Mark	7:8	You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men."
Mark	7:9	And he said to them, "You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
Mark	7:10	For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother'; and, 'Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.'
Mark	7:11	But you say, 'If a man tells his father or his mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is Corban' (that is, given to God)--
Mark	7:12	then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother,
Mark	7:13	thus making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things you do."
Mark	7:14	And he called the people to him again and said to them, "Hear me, all of you, and understand:
Mark	7:15	There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him."
Mark	7:16	See Footnote
Mark	7:17	And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable.
Mark	7:18	And he said to them, "Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him,
Mark	7:19	since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?" (Thus he declared all foods clean.)
Mark	7:20	And he said, "What comes out of a person is what defiles him.
Mark	7:21	For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery,
Mark	7:22	coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness.
Mark	7:23	All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person."
Mark	7:24	And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house and did not want anyone to know, yet he could not be hidden.
Mark	7:25	But immediately a woman whose little daughter was possessed by an unclean spirit heard of him and came and fell down at his feet.
Mark	7:26	Now the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophoenician by birth. And she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
Mark	7:27	And he said to her, "Let the children be fed first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."
Mark	7:28	But she answered him, "Yes, Lord; yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs."
Mark	7:29	And he said to her, "For this statement you may go your way; the demon has left your daughter."
Mark	7:30	And she went home and found the child lying in bed and the demon gone.
Mark	7:31	Then he returned from the region of Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, in the region of the Decapolis.
Mark	7:32	And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment, and they begged him to lay his hand on him.
Mark	7:33	And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting touched his tongue.
Mark	7:34	And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, "Ephphatha," that is, "Be opened."
Mark	7:35	And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly.
Mark	7:36	And Jesus charged them to tell no one. But the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it.
Mark	7:37	And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak."
Mark	8:1	In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered, and they had nothing to eat, he called his disciples to him and said to them,
Mark	8:2	"I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat.
Mark	8:3	And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away."
Mark	8:4	And his disciples answered him, "How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place?"
Mark	8:5	And he asked them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven."
Mark	8:6	And he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people; and they set them before the crowd.
Mark	8:7	And they had a few small fish. And having blessed them, he said that these also should be set before them.
Mark	8:8	And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full.
Mark	8:9	And there were about four thousand people. And he sent them away.
Mark	8:10	And immediately he got into the boat with his disciples and went to the district of Dalmanutha.
Mark	8:11	The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him.
Mark	8:12	And he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, "Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly, I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation."
Mark	8:13	And he left them, got into the boat again, and went to the other side.
Mark	8:14	Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
Mark	8:15	And he cautioned them, saying, "Watch out; beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod."
Mark	8:16	And they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread.
Mark	8:17	And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, "Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened?
Mark	8:18	Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember?
Mark	8:19	When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" They said to him, "Twelve."
Mark	8:20	"And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" And they said to him, "Seven."
Mark	8:21	And he said to them, "Do you not yet understand?"
Mark	8:22	And they came to Bethsaida. And some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him.
Mark	8:23	And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village, and when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, "Do you see anything?"
Mark	8:24	And he looked up and said, "I see men, but they look like trees, walking."
Mark	8:25	Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again; and he opened his eyes, his sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly.
Mark	8:26	And he sent him to his home, saying, "Do not even enter the village."
Mark	8:27	And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, "Who do people say that I am?"
Mark	8:28	And they told him, "John the Baptist; and others say, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets."
Mark	8:29	And he asked them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered him, "You are the Christ."
Mark	8:30	And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him.
Mark	8:31	And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again.
Mark	8:32	And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
Mark	8:33	But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, "Get behind me, Satan! For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man."
Mark	8:34	And he called to him the crowd with his disciples and said to them, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
Mark	8:35	For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Mark	8:36	For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his life?
Mark	8:37	For what can a man give in return for his life?
Mark	8:38	For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels."
Mark	9:1	And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power."
Mark	9:2	And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them,
Mark	9:3	and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them.
Mark	9:4	And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.
Mark	9:5	And Peter said to Jesus, "Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah."
Mark	9:6	For he did not know what to say, for they were terrified.
Mark	9:7	And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, "This is my beloved Son; listen to him."
Mark	9:8	And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus only.
Mark	9:9	And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
Mark	9:10	So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean.
Mark	9:11	And they asked him, "Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?"
Mark	9:12	And he said to them, "Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt?
Mark	9:13	But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him."
Mark	9:14	And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them.
Mark	9:15	And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him.
Mark	9:16	And he asked them, "What are you arguing about with them?"
Mark	9:17	And someone from the crowd answered him, "Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute.
Mark	9:18	And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able."
Mark	9:19	And he answered them, "O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me."
Mark	9:20	And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
Mark	9:21	And Jesus asked his father, "How long has this been happening to him?" And he said, "From childhood.
Mark	9:22	And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us."
Mark	9:23	And Jesus said to him, "If you can! All things are possible for one who believes."
Mark	9:24	Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, "I believe; help my unbelief!"
Mark	9:25	And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, "You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again."
Mark	9:26	And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, "He is dead."
Mark	9:27	But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
Mark	9:28	And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, "Why could we not cast it out?"
Mark	9:29	And he said to them, "This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer."
Mark	9:30	They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know,
Mark	9:31	for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, "The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise."
Mark	9:32	But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him.
Mark	9:33	And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house he asked them, "What were you discussing on the way?"
Mark	9:34	But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest.
Mark	9:35	And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, "If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all."
Mark	9:36	And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them,
Mark	9:37	"Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me."
Mark	9:38	John said to him, "Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him, because he was not following us."
Mark	9:39	But Jesus said, "Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me.
Mark	9:40	For the one who is not against us is for us.
Mark	9:41	For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward.
Mark	9:42	"Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea.
Mark	9:43	And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire.
Mark	9:44	See Footnote
Mark	9:45	And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell.
Mark	9:46	See Footnote
Mark	9:47	And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,
Mark	9:48	'where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.'
Mark	9:49	For everyone will be salted with fire.
Mark	9:50	Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another."
Mark	10:1	And he left there and went to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan, and crowds gathered to him again. And again, as was his custom, he taught them.
Mark	10:2	And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?"
Mark	10:3	He answered them, "What did Moses command you?"
Mark	10:4	They said, "Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away."
Mark	10:5	And Jesus said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
Mark	10:6	But from the beginning of creation, 'God made them male and female.'
Mark	10:7	'Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife,
Mark	10:8	and they shall become one flesh.' So they are no longer two but one flesh.
Mark	10:9	What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate."
Mark	10:10	And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter.
Mark	10:11	And he said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her,
Mark	10:12	and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery."
Mark	10:13	And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them.
Mark	10:14	But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, "Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
Mark	10:15	Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it."
Mark	10:16	And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.
Mark	10:17	And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, "Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
Mark	10:18	And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Mark	10:19	You know the commandments: 'Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.'"
Mark	10:20	And he said to him, "Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth."
Mark	10:21	And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, "You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Mark	10:22	Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Mark	10:23	And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, "How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!"
Mark	10:24	And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, "Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God!
Mark	10:25	It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."
Mark	10:26	And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, "Then who can be saved?"
Mark	10:27	Jesus looked at them and said, "With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God."
Mark	10:28	Peter began to say to him, "See, we have left everything and followed you."
Mark	10:29	Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel,
Mark	10:30	who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life.
Mark	10:31	But many who are first will be last, and the last first."
Mark	10:32	And they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was to happen to him,
Mark	10:33	saying, "See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles.
Mark	10:34	And they will mock him and spit on him, and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise."
Mark	10:35	And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you."
Mark	10:36	And he said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"
Mark	10:37	And they said to him, "Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your glory."
Mark	10:38	Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?"
Mark	10:39	And they said to him, "We are able." And Jesus said to them, "The cup that I drink you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized,
Mark	10:40	but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared."
Mark	10:41	And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John.
Mark	10:42	And Jesus called them to him and said to them, "You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Mark	10:43	But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
Mark	10:44	and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all.
Mark	10:45	For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
Mark	10:46	And they came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside.
Mark	10:47	And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Mark	10:48	And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Mark	10:49	And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him." And they called the blind man, saying to him, "Take heart. Get up; he is calling you."
Mark	10:50	And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus.
Mark	10:51	And Jesus said to him, "What do you want me to do for you?" And the blind man said to him, "Rabbi, let me recover my sight."
Mark	10:52	And Jesus said to him, "Go your way; your faith has made you well." And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way.
Mark	11:1	Now when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples
Mark	11:2	and said to them, "Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it.
Mark	11:3	If anyone says to you, 'Why are you doing this?' say, 'The Lord has need of it and will send it back here immediately.'"
Mark	11:4	And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it.
Mark	11:5	And some of those standing there said to them, "What are you doing, untying the colt?"
Mark	11:6	And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go.
Mark	11:7	And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it.
Mark	11:8	And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields.
Mark	11:9	And those who went before and those who followed were shouting, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
Mark	11:10	Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest!"
Mark	11:11	And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
Mark	11:12	On the following day, when they came from Bethany, he was hungry.
Mark	11:13	And seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to see if he could find anything on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
Mark	11:14	And he said to it, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again." And his disciples heard it.
Mark	11:15	And they came to Jerusalem. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons.
Mark	11:16	And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple.
Mark	11:17	And he was teaching them and saying to them, "Is it not written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations'? But you have made it a den of robbers."
Mark	11:18	And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching.
Mark	11:19	And when evening came they went out of the city.
Mark	11:20	As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots.
Mark	11:21	And Peter remembered and said to him, "Rabbi, look! The fig tree that you cursed has withered."
Mark	11:22	And Jesus answered them, "Have faith in God.
Mark	11:23	Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, 'Be taken up and thrown into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.
Mark	11:24	Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.
Mark	11:25	And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses."
Mark	11:26	See Footnote
Mark	11:27	And they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him,
Mark	11:28	and they said to him, "By what authority are you doing these things, or who gave you this authority to do them?"
Mark	11:29	Jesus said to them, "I will ask you one question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mark	11:30	Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me."
Mark	11:31	And they discussed it with one another, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why then did you not believe him?'
Mark	11:32	But shall we say, 'From man'?"--they were afraid of the people, for they all held that John really was a prophet.
Mark	11:33	So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."
Mark	12:1	And he began to speak to them in parables. "A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a pit for the winepress and built a tower, and leased it to tenants and went into another country.
Mark	12:2	When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard.
Mark	12:3	And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Mark	12:4	Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully.
Mark	12:5	And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others: some they beat, and some they killed.
Mark	12:6	He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent him to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.'
Mark	12:7	But those tenants said to one another, 'This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.'
Mark	12:8	And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
Mark	12:9	What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others.
Mark	12:10	Have you not read this Scripture: "'The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone;
Mark	12:11	this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?"
Mark	12:12	And they were seeking to arrest him but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them. So they left him and went away.
Mark	12:13	And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians, to trap him in his talk.
Mark	12:14	And they came and said to him, "Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion. For you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not? Should we pay them, or should we not?"
Mark	12:15	But, knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, "Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius and let me look at it."
Mark	12:16	And they brought one. And he said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?" They said to him, "Caesar's."
Mark	12:17	Jesus said to them, "Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." And they marveled at him.
Mark	12:18	And Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying,
Mark	12:19	"Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Mark	12:20	There were seven brothers; the first took a wife, and when he died left no offspring.
Mark	12:21	And the second took her, and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise.
Mark	12:22	And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman also died.
Mark	12:23	In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife."
Mark	12:24	Jesus said to them, "Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God?
Mark	12:25	For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Mark	12:26	And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, 'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'?
Mark	12:27	He is not God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong."
Mark	12:28	And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, "Which commandment is the most important of all?"
Mark	12:29	Jesus answered, "The most important is, 'Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Mark	12:30	And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.'
Mark	12:31	The second is this: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' There is no other commandment greater than these."
Mark	12:32	And the scribe said to him, "You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him.
Mark	12:33	And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices."
Mark	12:34	And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of God." And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions.
Mark	12:35	And as Jesus taught in the temple, he said, "How can the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
Mark	12:36	David himself, in the Holy Spirit, declared, "'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet.'
Mark	12:37	David himself calls him Lord. So how is he his son?" And the great throng heard him gladly.
Mark	12:38	And in his teaching he said, "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces
Mark	12:39	and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Mark	12:40	who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation."
Mark	12:41	And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums.
Mark	12:42	And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny.
Mark	12:43	And he called his disciples to him and said to them, "Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box.
Mark	12:44	For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on."
Mark	13:1	And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!"
Mark	13:2	And Jesus said to him, "Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."
Mark	13:3	And as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
Mark	13:4	"Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?"
Mark	13:5	And Jesus began to say to them, "See that no one leads you astray.
Mark	13:6	Many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he!' and they will lead many astray.
Mark	13:7	And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet.
Mark	13:8	For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places; there will be famines. These are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Mark	13:9	"But be on your guard. For they will deliver you over to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them.
Mark	13:10	And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations.
Mark	13:11	And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say, but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
Mark	13:12	And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death.
Mark	13:13	And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Mark	13:14	"But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it ought not to be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Mark	13:15	Let the one who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter his house, to take anything out,
Mark	13:16	and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Mark	13:17	And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Mark	13:18	Pray that it may not happen in winter.
Mark	13:19	For in those days there will be such tribulation as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created until now, and never will be.
Mark	13:20	And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, whom he chose, he shortened the days.
Mark	13:21	And then if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'Look, there he is!' do not believe it.
Mark	13:22	False christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the elect.
Mark	13:23	But be on guard; I have told you all things beforehand.
Mark	13:24	"But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
Mark	13:25	and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
Mark	13:26	And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
Mark	13:27	And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven.
Mark	13:28	"From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near.
Mark	13:29	So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Mark	13:30	Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Mark	13:31	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Mark	13:32	"But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
Mark	13:33	Be on guard, keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come.
Mark	13:34	It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake.
Mark	13:35	Therefore stay awake--for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the cock crows, or in the morning--
Mark	13:36	lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
Mark	13:37	And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake."
Mark	14:1	It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him,
Mark	14:2	for they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people."
Mark	14:3	And while he was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head.
Mark	14:4	There were some who said to themselves indignantly, "Why was the ointment wasted like that?
Mark	14:5	For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor." And they scolded her.
Mark	14:6	But Jesus said, "Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
Mark	14:7	For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you will not always have me.
Mark	14:8	She has done what she could; she has anointed my body beforehand for burial.
Mark	14:9	And truly, I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her."
Mark	14:10	Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them.
Mark	14:11	And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an opportunity to betray him.
Mark	14:12	And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, "Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?"
Mark	14:13	And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him,
Mark	14:14	and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, 'The Teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?'
Mark	14:15	And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us."
Mark	14:16	And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
Mark	14:17	And when it was evening, he came with the twelve.
Mark	14:18	And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me."
Mark	14:19	They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, "Is it I?"
Mark	14:20	He said to them, "It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me.
Mark	14:21	For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born."
Mark	14:22	And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, "Take; this is my body."
Mark	14:23	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it.
Mark	14:24	And he said to them, "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.
Mark	14:25	Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God."
Mark	14:26	And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Mark	14:27	And Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away, for it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.'
Mark	14:28	But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee."
Mark	14:29	Peter said to him, "Even though they all fall away, I will not."
Mark	14:30	And Jesus said to him, "Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times."
Mark	14:31	But he said emphatically, "If I must die with you, I will not deny you." And they all said the same.
Mark	14:32	And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray."
Mark	14:33	And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled.
Mark	14:34	And he said to them, "My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch."
Mark	14:35	And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
Mark	14:36	And he said, "Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will."
Mark	14:37	And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, "Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour?
Mark	14:38	Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."
Mark	14:39	And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
Mark	14:40	And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him.
Mark	14:41	And he came the third time and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough; the hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Mark	14:42	Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
Mark	14:43	And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mark	14:44	Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, "The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard."
Mark	14:45	And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, "Rabbi!" And he kissed him.
Mark	14:46	And they laid hands on him and seized him.
Mark	14:47	But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Mark	14:48	And Jesus said to them, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me?
Mark	14:49	Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the Scriptures be fulfilled."
Mark	14:50	And they all left him and fled.
Mark	14:51	And a young man followed him, with nothing but a linen cloth about his body. And they seized him,
Mark	14:52	but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked.
Mark	14:53	And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.
Mark	14:54	And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire.
Mark	14:55	Now the chief priests and the whole Council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none.
Mark	14:56	For many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree.
Mark	14:57	And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying,
Mark	14:58	"We heard him say, 'I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another, not made with hands.'"
Mark	14:59	Yet even about this their testimony did not agree.
Mark	14:60	And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, "Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?"
Mark	14:61	But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?"
Mark	14:62	And Jesus said, "I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven."
Mark	14:63	And the high priest tore his garments and said, "What further witnesses do we need?
Mark	14:64	You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision?" And they all condemned him as deserving death.
Mark	14:65	And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him, saying to him, "Prophesy!" And the guards received him with blows.
Mark	14:66	And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
Mark	14:67	and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, "You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus."
Mark	14:68	But he denied it, saying, "I neither know nor understand what you mean." And he went out into the gateway and the rooster crowed.
Mark	14:69	And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, "This man is one of them."
Mark	14:70	But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, "Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean."
Mark	14:71	But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know this man of whom you speak."
Mark	14:72	And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, "Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times." And he broke down and wept.
Mark	15:1	And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Council. And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate.
Mark	15:2	And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
Mark	15:3	And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Mark	15:4	And Pilate again asked him, "Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you."
Mark	15:5	But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed.
Mark	15:6	Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked.
Mark	15:7	And among the rebels in prison, who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas.
Mark	15:8	And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them.
Mark	15:9	And he answered them, saying, "Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?"
Mark	15:10	For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up.
Mark	15:11	But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead.
Mark	15:12	And Pilate again said to them, "Then what shall I do with the man you call the King of the Jews?"
Mark	15:13	And they cried out again, "Crucify him."
Mark	15:14	And Pilate said to them, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Crucify him."
Mark	15:15	So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.
Mark	15:16	And the soldiers led him away inside the palace (that is, the governor's headquarters), and they called together the whole battalion.
Mark	15:17	And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on him.
Mark	15:18	And they began to salute him, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
Mark	15:19	And they were striking his head with a reed and spitting on him and kneeling down in homage to him.
Mark	15:20	And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes on him. And they led him out to crucify him.
Mark	15:21	And they compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross.
Mark	15:22	And they brought him to the place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull).
Mark	15:23	And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it.
Mark	15:24	And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what each should take.
Mark	15:25	And it was the third hour when they crucified him.
Mark	15:26	And the inscription of the charge against him read, "The King of the Jews."
Mark	15:27	And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left.
Mark	15:28	See Footnote
Mark	15:29	And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, "Aha! You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
Mark	15:30	save yourself, and come down from the cross!"
Mark	15:31	So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, "He saved others; he cannot save himself.
Mark	15:32	Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe." Those who were crucified with him also reviled him.
Mark	15:33	And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
Mark	15:34	And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, "Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?" which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
Mark	15:35	And some of the bystanders hearing it said, "Behold, he is calling Elijah."
Mark	15:36	And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink, saying, "Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down."
Mark	15:37	And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last.
Mark	15:38	And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
Mark	15:39	And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, "Truly this man was the Son of God!"
Mark	15:40	There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome.
Mark	15:41	When he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him, and there were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.
Mark	15:42	And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
Mark	15:43	Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the Council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Mark	15:44	Pilate was surprised to hear that he should have already died. And summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he was already dead.
Mark	15:45	And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
Mark	15:46	And Joseph bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud and laid him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb.
Mark	15:47	Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.
Mark	16:1	When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him.
Mark	16:2	And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb.
Mark	16:3	And they were saying to one another, "Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?"
Mark	16:4	And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back--it was very large.
Mark	16:5	And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed.
Mark	16:6	And he said to them, "Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him.
Mark	16:7	But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you."
Mark	16:8	And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. [Some of the earliest manuscripts do not include 16:9-20.]
Mark	16:9	[[Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
Mark	16:10	She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
Mark	16:11	But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it.
Mark	16:12	After these things he appeared in another form to two of them, as they were walking into the country.
Mark	16:13	And they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them.
Mark	16:14	Afterward he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen.
Mark	16:15	And he said to them, "Go into all the world and _kyruxate_ the gospel to the whole creation.
Mark	16:16	Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.
Mark	16:17	And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues;
Mark	16:18	they will pick up serpents with their hands; and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover."
Mark	16:19	So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God.
Mark	16:20	And they went out and _kyriou_ everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the message by accompanying signs.]]
Luke	1:1	Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us,
Luke	1:2	just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us,
Luke	1:3	it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus,
Luke	1:4	that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught.
Luke	1:5	In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
Luke	1:6	And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord.
Luke	1:7	But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years.
Luke	1:8	Now while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty,
Luke	1:9	according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
Luke	1:10	And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.
Luke	1:11	And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
Luke	1:12	And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
Luke	1:13	But the angel said to him, "Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John.
Luke	1:14	And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,
Luke	1:15	for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb.
Luke	1:16	And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God,
Luke	1:17	and he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared."
Luke	1:18	And Zechariah said to the angel, "How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years."
Luke	1:19	And the angel answered him, "I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news.
Luke	1:20	And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time."
Luke	1:21	And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple.
Luke	1:22	And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute.
Luke	1:23	And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home.
Luke	1:24	After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying,
Luke	1:25	"Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me, to take away my reproach among people."
Luke	1:26	In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,
Luke	1:27	to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.
Luke	1:28	And he came to her and said, "Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you!"
Luke	1:29	But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be.
Luke	1:30	And the angel said to her, "Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
Luke	1:31	And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.
Luke	1:32	He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David,
Luke	1:33	and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end."
Luke	1:34	And Mary said to the angel, "How will this be, since I am a virgin?"
Luke	1:35	And the angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy--the Son of God.
Luke	1:36	And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.
Luke	1:37	For nothing will be impossible with God."
Luke	1:38	And Mary said, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word." And the angel departed from her.
Luke	1:39	In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah,
Luke	1:40	and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth.
Luke	1:41	And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,
Luke	1:42	and she exclaimed with a loud cry, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Luke	1:43	And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luke	1:44	For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy.
Luke	1:45	And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord."
Luke	1:46	And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord,
Luke	1:47	and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,
Luke	1:48	for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed;
Luke	1:49	for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name.
Luke	1:50	And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.
Luke	1:51	He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts;
Luke	1:52	he has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate;
Luke	1:53	he has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent empty away.
Luke	1:54	He has helped his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy,
Luke	1:55	as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever."
Luke	1:56	And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home.
Luke	1:57	Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
Luke	1:58	And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her.
Luke	1:59	And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah after his father,
Luke	1:60	but his mother answered, "No; he shall be called John."
Luke	1:61	And they said to her, "None of your relatives is called by this name."
Luke	1:62	And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called.
Luke	1:63	And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, "His name is John." And they all wondered.
Luke	1:64	And immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God.
Luke	1:65	And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea,
Luke	1:66	and all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, "What then will this child be?" For the hand of the Lord was with him.
Luke	1:67	And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying,
Luke	1:68	"Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people
Luke	1:69	and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David,
Luke	1:70	as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old,
Luke	1:71	that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us;
Luke	1:72	to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant,
Luke	1:73	the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us
Luke	1:74	that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear,
Luke	1:75	in holiness and righteousness before him all our days.
Luke	1:76	And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways,
Luke	1:77	to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins,
Luke	1:78	because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high
Luke	1:79	to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace."
Luke	1:80	And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel.
Luke	2:1	In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered.
Luke	2:2	This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
Luke	2:3	And all went to be registered, each to his own town.
Luke	2:4	And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David,
Luke	2:5	to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child.
Luke	2:6	And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth.
Luke	2:7	And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn.
Luke	2:8	And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
Luke	2:9	And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with fear.
Luke	2:10	And the angel said to them, "Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of a great joy that will be for all the people.
Luke	2:11	For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
Luke	2:12	And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger."
Luke	2:13	And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,
Luke	2:14	"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!"
Luke	2:15	When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, "Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us."
Luke	2:16	And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger.
Luke	2:17	And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child.
Luke	2:18	And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them.
Luke	2:19	But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart.
Luke	2:20	And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them.
Luke	2:21	And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Luke	2:22	And when the time came for their purification according to the Law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord
Luke	2:23	(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, "Every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord")
Luke	2:24	and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord, "a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons."
Luke	2:25	Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
Luke	2:26	And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
Luke	2:27	And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the Law,
Luke	2:28	he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said,
Luke	2:29	"Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word;
Luke	2:30	for my eyes have seen your salvation
Luke	2:31	that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples,
Luke	2:32	a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel."
Luke	2:33	And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him.
Luke	2:34	And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, "Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed
Luke	2:35	(and a sword will pierce through your own soul also), so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed."
Luke	2:36	And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin,
Luke	2:37	and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple, worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day.
Luke	2:38	And coming up at that very hour she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
Luke	2:39	And when they had performed everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth.
Luke	2:40	And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him.
Luke	2:41	Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover.
Luke	2:42	And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom.
Luke	2:43	And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it,
Luke	2:44	but supposing him to be in the group they went a day's journey, but then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances,
Luke	2:45	and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for him.
Luke	2:46	After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions.
Luke	2:47	And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.
Luke	2:48	And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, "Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress."
Luke	2:49	And he said to them, "Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?"
Luke	2:50	And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them.
Luke	2:51	And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart.
Luke	2:52	And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.
Luke	3:1	In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene,
Luke	3:2	during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness.
Luke	3:3	And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
Luke	3:4	As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness: 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Luke	3:5	Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways,
Luke	3:6	and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.'"
Luke	3:7	He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, "You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Luke	3:8	Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Luke	3:9	Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire."
Luke	3:10	And the crowds asked him, "What then shall we do?"
Luke	3:11	And he answered them, "Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise."
Luke	3:12	Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, "Teacher, what shall we do?"
Luke	3:13	And he said to them, "Collect no more than you are authorized to do."
Luke	3:14	Soldiers also asked him, "And we, what shall we do?" And he said to them, "Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages."
Luke	3:15	As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might be the Christ,
Luke	3:16	John answered them all, saying, "I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
Luke	3:17	His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire."
Luke	3:18	So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people.
Luke	3:19	But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evil things that Herod had done,
Luke	3:20	added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison.
Luke	3:21	Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened,
Luke	3:22	and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
Luke	3:23	Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,
Luke	3:24	the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
Luke	3:25	the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
Luke	3:26	the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
Luke	3:27	the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
Luke	3:28	the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
Luke	3:29	the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
Luke	3:30	the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
Luke	3:31	the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
Luke	3:32	the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon,
Luke	3:33	the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
Luke	3:34	the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
Luke	3:35	the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
Luke	3:36	the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
Luke	3:37	the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,
Luke	3:38	the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
Luke	4:1	And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the wilderness
Luke	4:2	for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days. And when they were ended, he was hungry.
Luke	4:3	The devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread."
Luke	4:4	And Jesus answered him, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone.'"
Luke	4:5	And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time,
Luke	4:6	and said to him, "To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will.
Luke	4:7	If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours."
Luke	4:8	And Jesus answered him, "It is written, "'You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.'"
Luke	4:9	And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here,
Luke	4:10	for it is written, "'He will command his angels concerning you, to guard you,'
Luke	4:11	and "'On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"
Luke	4:12	And Jesus answered him, "It is said, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'"
Luke	4:13	And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time.
Luke	4:14	And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report about him went out through all the surrounding country.
Luke	4:15	And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
Luke	4:16	And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read.
Luke	4:17	And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written,
Luke	4:18	"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed,
Luke	4:19	to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor."
Luke	4:20	And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him.
Luke	4:21	And he began to say to them, "Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing."
Luke	4:22	And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And they said, "Is not this Joseph's son?"
Luke	4:23	And he said to them, "Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, 'Physician, heal yourself.' What we have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well."
Luke	4:24	And he said, "Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown.
Luke	4:25	But in truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land,
Luke	4:26	and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
Luke	4:27	And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian."
Luke	4:28	When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath.
Luke	4:29	And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff.
Luke	4:30	But passing through their midst, he went away.
Luke	4:31	And he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the Sabbath,
Luke	4:32	and they were astonished at his teaching, for his word possessed authority.
Luke	4:33	And in the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
Luke	4:34	"Ha! What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are--the Holy One of God."
Luke	4:35	But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent and come out of him!" And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm.
Luke	4:36	And they were all amazed and said to one another, "What is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!"
Luke	4:37	And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region.
Luke	4:38	And he arose and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf.
Luke	4:39	And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she rose and began to serve them.
Luke	4:40	Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them.
Luke	4:41	And demons also came out of many, crying, "You are the Son of God!" But he rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.
Luke	4:42	And when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate place. And the people sought him and came to him, and would have kept him from leaving them,
Luke	4:43	but he said to them, "I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well; for I was sent for this purpose."
Luke	4:44	And he was preaching in the synagogues of Judea.
Luke	5:1	On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,
Luke	5:2	and he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets.
Luke	5:3	Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people from the boat.
Luke	5:4	And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, "Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch."
Luke	5:5	And Simon answered, "Master, we toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let down the nets."
Luke	5:6	And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking.
Luke	5:7	They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
Luke	5:8	But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord."
Luke	5:9	For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken,
Luke	5:10	and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, "Do not be afraid; from now on you will be catching men."
Luke	5:11	And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him.
Luke	5:12	While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged him, "Lord, if you will, you can make me clean."
Luke	5:13	And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, "I will; be clean." And immediately the leprosy left him.
Luke	5:14	And he charged him to tell no one, but "go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to them."
Luke	5:15	But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities.
Luke	5:16	But he would withdraw to desolate places and pray.
Luke	5:17	On one of those days, as he was teaching, Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was with him to heal.
Luke	5:18	And behold, some men were bringing on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to bring him in and lay him before Jesus,
Luke	5:19	but finding no way to bring him in, because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down with his bed through the tiles into the midst before Jesus.
Luke	5:20	And when he saw their faith, he said, "Man, your sins are forgiven you."
Luke	5:21	And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, "Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?"
Luke	5:22	When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, "Why do you question in your hearts?
Luke	5:23	Which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven you,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'?
Luke	5:24	But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"--he said to the man who was paralyzed--"I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home."
Luke	5:25	And immediately he rose up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home, glorifying God.
Luke	5:26	And amazement seized them all, and they glorified God and were filled with awe, saying, "We have seen extraordinary things today."
Luke	5:27	After this he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, "Follow me."
Luke	5:28	And leaving everything, he rose and followed him.
Luke	5:29	And Levi made him a great feast in his house, and there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them.
Luke	5:30	And the Pharisees and their scribes grumbled at his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?"
Luke	5:31	And Jesus answered them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
Luke	5:32	I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance."
Luke	5:33	And they said to him, "The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink."
Luke	5:34	And Jesus said to them, "Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them?
Luke	5:35	The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days."
Luke	5:36	He also told them a parable: "No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old.
Luke	5:37	And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
Luke	5:38	But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
Luke	5:39	And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, 'The old is good.'"
Luke	6:1	On a Sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands.
Luke	6:2	But some of the Pharisees said, "Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?"
Luke	6:3	And Jesus answered them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him:
Luke	6:4	how he entered the house of God and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?"
Luke	6:5	And he said to them, "The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."
Luke	6:6	On another Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was withered.
Luke	6:7	And the scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find a reason to accuse him.
Luke	6:8	But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, "Come and stand here." And he rose and stood there.
Luke	6:9	And Jesus said to them, "I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it?"
Luke	6:10	And after looking around at them all he said to him, "Stretch out your hand." And he did so, and his hand was restored.
Luke	6:11	But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
Luke	6:12	In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God.
Luke	6:13	And when day came, he called his disciples and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles:
Luke	6:14	Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip, and Bartholomew,
Luke	6:15	and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot,
Luke	6:16	and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
Luke	6:17	And he came down with them and stood on a level place, with a great crowd of his disciples and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon,
Luke	6:18	who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured.
Luke	6:19	And all the crowd sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.
Luke	6:20	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said:"Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Luke	6:21	"Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied."Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Luke	6:22	"Blessed are you when people hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and spurn your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man!
Luke	6:23	Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.
Luke	6:24	"But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation.
Luke	6:25	"Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry."Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep.
Luke	6:26	"Woe to you, when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets.
Luke	6:27	"But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,
Luke	6:28	bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.
Luke	6:29	To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from one who takes away your cloak do not withhold your tunic either.
Luke	6:30	Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back.
Luke	6:31	And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.
Luke	6:32	"If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
Luke	6:33	And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
Luke	6:34	And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount.
Luke	6:35	But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil.
Luke	6:36	Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.
Luke	6:37	"Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven;
Luke	6:38	give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it will be measured back to you."
Luke	6:39	He also told them a parable: "Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit?
Luke	6:40	A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.
Luke	6:41	Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
Luke	6:42	How can you say to your brother, 'Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,' when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye.
Luke	6:43	"For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit,
Luke	6:44	for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush.
Luke	6:45	The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
Luke	6:46	"Why do you call me 'Lord, Lord,' and not do what I tell you?
Luke	6:47	Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like:
Luke	6:48	he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
Luke	6:49	But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great."
Luke	7:1	After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum.
Luke	7:2	Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him.
Luke	7:3	When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant.
Luke	7:4	And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, "He is worthy to have you do this for him,
Luke	7:5	for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue."
Luke	7:6	And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to him, "Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof.
Luke	7:7	Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed.
Luke	7:8	For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me: and I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes; and to another, 'Come,' and he comes; and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."
Luke	7:9	When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith."
Luke	7:10	And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well.
Luke	7:11	Soon afterward he went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him.
Luke	7:12	As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her.
Luke	7:13	And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, "Do not weep."
Luke	7:14	Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, "Young man, I say to you, arise."
Luke	7:15	And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.
Luke	7:16	Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, "A great prophet has arisen among us!" and "God has visited his people!"
Luke	7:17	And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country.
Luke	7:18	The disciples of John reported all these things to him. And John,
Luke	7:19	calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?"
Luke	7:20	And when the men had come to him, they said, "John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, 'Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?'"
Luke	7:21	In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were blind he bestowed sight.
Luke	7:22	And he answered them, "Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them.
Luke	7:23	And blessed is the one who is not offended by me."
Luke	7:24	When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
Luke	7:25	What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in kings' courts.
Luke	7:26	What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Luke	7:27	This is he of whom it is written, "'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.'
Luke	7:28	I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he."
Luke	7:29	(When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John,
Luke	7:30	but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him.)
Luke	7:31	"To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like?
Luke	7:32	They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, "'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not weep.'
Luke	7:33	For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, 'He has a demon.'
Luke	7:34	The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!'
Luke	7:35	Yet wisdom is justified by all her children."
Luke	7:36	One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisee's house and took his place at the table.
Luke	7:37	And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment,
Luke	7:38	and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head and kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment.
Luke	7:39	Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, "If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner."
Luke	7:40	And Jesus answering said to him, "Simon, I have something to say to you." And he answered, "Say it, Teacher."
Luke	7:41	"A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
Luke	7:42	When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more?"
Luke	7:43	Simon answered, "The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt." And he said to him, "You have judged rightly."
Luke	7:44	Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, "Do you see this woman? I entered your house; you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
Luke	7:45	You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet.
Luke	7:46	You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Luke	7:47	Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven--for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little."
Luke	7:48	And he said to her, "Your sins are forgiven."
Luke	7:49	Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, "Who is this, who even forgives sins?"
Luke	7:50	And he said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you; go in peace."
Luke	8:1	Soon afterward he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him,
Luke	8:2	and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
Luke	8:3	and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's household manager, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their means.
Luke	8:4	And when a great crowd was gathering and people from town after town came to him, he said in a parable:
Luke	8:5	"A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it.
Luke	8:6	And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture.
Luke	8:7	And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.
Luke	8:8	And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold." As he said these things, he called out, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
Luke	8:9	And when his disciples asked him what this parable meant,
Luke	8:10	he said, "To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are in parables, so that 'seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.'
Luke	8:11	Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Luke	8:12	The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved.
Luke	8:13	And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root; they believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away.
Luke	8:14	And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.
Luke	8:15	As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience.
Luke	8:16	"No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.
Luke	8:17	For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light.
Luke	8:18	Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away."
Luke	8:19	Then his mother and his brothers came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd.
Luke	8:20	And he was told, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you."
Luke	8:21	But he answered them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."
Luke	8:22	One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side of the lake." So they set out,
Luke	8:23	and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in danger.
Luke	8:24	And they went and woke him, saying, "Master, Master, we are perishing!" And he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and they ceased, and there was a calm.
Luke	8:25	He said to them, "Where is your faith?" And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, "Who then is this, that he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?"
Luke	8:26	Then they sailed to the country of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee.
Luke	8:27	When Jesus had stepped out on land, there met him a man from the city who had demons. For a long time he had worn no clothes, and he had not lived in a house but among the tombs.
Luke	8:28	When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him and said with a loud voice, "What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me."
Luke	8:29	For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (For many a time it had seized him. He was kept under guard and bound with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demon into the desert.)
Luke	8:30	Jesus then asked him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion," for many demons had entered him.
Luke	8:31	And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss.
Luke	8:32	Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him to let them enter these. So he gave them permission.
Luke	8:33	Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned.
Luke	8:34	When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country.
Luke	8:35	Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Luke	8:36	And those who had seen it told them how the demon-possessed man had been healed.
Luke	8:37	Then all the people of the surrounding country of the Gerasenes asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned.
Luke	8:38	The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Luke	8:39	"Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you." And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him.
Luke	8:40	Now when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
Luke	8:41	And there came a man named Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue. And falling at Jesus' feet, he implored him to come to his house,
Luke	8:42	for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying.As Jesus went, the people pressed around him.
Luke	8:43	And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and though she had spent all her living on physicians, she could not be healed by anyone.
Luke	8:44	She came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased.
Luke	8:45	And Jesus said, "Who was it that touched me?" When all denied it, Peter said, "Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you!"
Luke	8:46	But Jesus said, "Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me."
Luke	8:47	And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed.
Luke	8:48	And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace."
Luke	8:49	While he was still speaking, someone from the ruler's house came and said, "Your daughter is dead; do not trouble the Teacher any more."
Luke	8:50	But Jesus on hearing this answered him, "Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well."
Luke	8:51	And when he came to the house, he allowed no one to enter with him, except Peter and John and James, and the father and mother of the child.
Luke	8:52	And all were weeping and mourning for her, but he said, "Do not weep, for she is not dead but sleeping."
Luke	8:53	And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead.
Luke	8:54	But taking her by the hand he called, saying, "Child, arise."
Luke	8:55	And her spirit returned, and she got up at once. And he directed that something should be given her to eat.
Luke	8:56	And her parents were amazed, but he charged them to tell no one what had happened.
Luke	9:1	And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases,
Luke	9:2	and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal.
Luke	9:3	And he said to them, "Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics.
Luke	9:4	And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart.
Luke	9:5	And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them."
Luke	9:6	And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere.
Luke	9:7	Now Herod the tetrarch heard about all that was happening, and he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead,
Luke	9:8	by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the prophets of old had risen.
Luke	9:9	Herod said, "John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things?" And he sought to see him.
Luke	9:10	On their return the apostles told him all that they had done. And he took them and withdrew apart to a town called Bethsaida.
Luke	9:11	When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them and spoke to them of the kingdom of God and cured those who had need of healing.
Luke	9:12	Now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came and said to him, "Send the crowd away to go into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate place."
Luke	9:13	But he said to them, "You give them something to eat." They said, "We have no more than five loaves and two fish--unless we are to go and buy food for all these people."
Luke	9:14	For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, "Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each."
Luke	9:15	And they did so, and had them all sit down.
Luke	9:16	And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
Luke	9:17	And they all ate and were satisfied. And what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken pieces.
Luke	9:18	Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, "Who do the crowds say that I am?"
Luke	9:19	And they answered, "John the Baptist. But others say, Elijah, and others, that one of the prophets of old has risen."
Luke	9:20	Then he said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" And Peter answered, "The Christ of God."
Luke	9:21	And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one,
Luke	9:22	saying, "The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised."
Luke	9:23	And he said to all, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.
Luke	9:24	For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Luke	9:25	For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?
Luke	9:26	For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.
Luke	9:27	But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God."
Luke	9:28	Now about eight days after these sayings he took with him Peter and John and James and went up on the mountain to pray.
Luke	9:29	And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white.
Luke	9:30	And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah,
Luke	9:31	who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.
Luke	9:32	Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, but when they became fully awake they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him.
Luke	9:33	And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah"--not knowing what he said.
Luke	9:34	As he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud.
Luke	9:35	And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my Son, my Chosen One; listen to him!"
Luke	9:36	And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
Luke	9:37	On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him.
Luke	9:38	And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, "Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child.
Luke	9:39	And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him so that he foams at the mouth; and shatters him, and will hardly leave him.
Luke	9:40	And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not."
Luke	9:41	Jesus answered, "O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here."
Luke	9:42	While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
Luke	9:43	And all were astonished at the majesty of God.But while they were all marveling at everything he was doing, Jesus said to his disciples,
Luke	9:44	"Let these words sink into your ears: The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men."
Luke	9:45	But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
Luke	9:46	An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest.
Luke	9:47	But Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side
Luke	9:48	and said to them, "Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all is the one who is great."
Luke	9:49	John answered, "Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him, because he does not follow with us."
Luke	9:50	But Jesus said to him, "Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you."
Luke	9:51	When the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem.
Luke	9:52	And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to make preparations for him.
Luke	9:53	But the people did not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem.
Luke	9:54	And when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, "Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them?"
Luke	9:55	But he turned and rebuked them.
Luke	9:56	And they went on to another village.
Luke	9:57	As they were going along the road, someone said to him, "I will follow you wherever you go."
Luke	9:58	And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head."
Luke	9:59	To another he said, "Follow me." But he said, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father."
Luke	9:60	And Jesus said to him, "Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God."
Luke	9:61	Yet another said, "I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home."
Luke	9:62	Jesus said to him, "No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God."
Luke	10:1	After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go.
Luke	10:2	And he said to them, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
Luke	10:3	Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Luke	10:4	Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road.
Luke	10:5	Whatever house you enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house!'
Luke	10:6	And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you.
Luke	10:7	And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house.
Luke	10:8	Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you.
Luke	10:9	Heal the sick in it and say to them, 'The kingdom of God has come near to you.'
Luke	10:10	But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say,
Luke	10:11	'Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.'
Luke	10:12	I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town.
Luke	10:13	"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Luke	10:14	But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Luke	10:15	And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades.
Luke	10:16	"The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me."
Luke	10:17	The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"
Luke	10:18	And he said to them, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.
Luke	10:19	Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.
Luke	10:20	Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."
Luke	10:21	In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.
Luke	10:22	All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, or who the Father is except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him."
Luke	10:23	Then turning to the disciples he said privately, "Blessed are the eyes that see what you see!
Luke	10:24	For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it."
Luke	10:25	And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"
Luke	10:26	He said to him, "What is written in the Law? How do you read it?"
Luke	10:27	And he answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself."
Luke	10:28	And he said to him, "You have answered correctly; do this, and you will live."
Luke	10:29	But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"
Luke	10:30	Jesus replied, "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead.
Luke	10:31	Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side.
Luke	10:32	So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
Luke	10:33	But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion.
Luke	10:34	He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him.
Luke	10:35	And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, 'Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.'
Luke	10:36	Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?"
Luke	10:37	He said, "The one who showed him mercy." And Jesus said to him, "You go, and do likewise."
Luke	10:38	Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house.
Luke	10:39	And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching.
Luke	10:40	But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me."
Luke	10:41	But the Lord answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,
Luke	10:42	but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her."
Luke	11:1	Now Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples."
Luke	11:2	And he said to them, "When you pray, say: "Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
Luke	11:3	Give us each day our daily bread,
Luke	11:4	and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation."
Luke	11:5	And he said to them, "Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, 'Friend, lend me three loaves,
Luke	11:6	for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him';
Luke	11:7	and he will answer from within, 'Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything'?
Luke	11:8	I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence he will rise and give him whatever he needs.
Luke	11:9	And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Luke	11:10	For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.
Luke	11:11	What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent;
Luke	11:12	or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
Luke	11:13	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!"
Luke	11:14	Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled.
Luke	11:15	But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of demons,"
Luke	11:16	while others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven.
Luke	11:17	But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls.
Luke	11:18	And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.
Luke	11:19	And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.
Luke	11:20	But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Luke	11:21	When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe;
Luke	11:22	but when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil.
Luke	11:23	Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Luke	11:24	"When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, and finding none it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.'
Luke	11:25	And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order.
Luke	11:26	Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first."
Luke	11:27	As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts at which you nursed!"
Luke	11:28	But he said, "Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!"
Luke	11:29	When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, "This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
Luke	11:30	For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation.
Luke	11:31	The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
Luke	11:32	The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
Luke	11:33	"No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.
Luke	11:34	Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is full of light, but when it is bad, your body is full of darkness.
Luke	11:35	Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
Luke	11:36	If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light."
Luke	11:37	While Jesus was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, so he went in and reclined at table.
Luke	11:38	The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner.
Luke	11:39	And the Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness.
Luke	11:40	You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
Luke	11:41	But give as alms those things that are within, and behold, everything is clean for you.
Luke	11:42	"But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
Luke	11:43	Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces.
Luke	11:44	Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it."
Luke	11:45	One of the lawyers answered him, "Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also."
Luke	11:46	And he said, "Woe to you lawyers also! For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luke	11:47	Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed.
Luke	11:48	So you are witnesses and you consent to the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs.
Luke	11:49	Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, 'I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,'
Luke	11:50	so that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be charged against this generation,
Luke	11:51	from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.
Luke	11:52	Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering."
Luke	11:53	As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard and to provoke him to speak about many things,
Luke	11:54	lying in wait for him, to catch him in something he might say.
Luke	12:1	In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
Luke	12:2	Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Luke	12:3	Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops.
Luke	12:4	"I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do.
Luke	12:5	But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him!
Luke	12:6	Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
Luke	12:7	Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Luke	12:8	"And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God,
Luke	12:9	but the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
Luke	12:10	And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
Luke	12:11	And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say,
Luke	12:12	for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say."
Luke	12:13	Someone in the crowd said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."
Luke	12:14	But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?"
Luke	12:15	And he said to them, "Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions."
Luke	12:16	And he told them a parable, saying, "The land of a rich man produced plentifully,
Luke	12:17	and he thought to himself, 'What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?'
Luke	12:18	And he said, 'I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
Luke	12:19	And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry.'
Luke	12:20	But God said to him, 'Fool! This night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be?'
Luke	12:21	So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God."
Luke	12:22	And he said to his disciples, "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on.
Luke	12:23	For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Luke	12:24	Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!
Luke	12:25	And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?
Luke	12:26	If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest?
Luke	12:27	Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Luke	12:28	But if God so clothes the grass, which is alive in the field today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith!
Luke	12:29	And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried.
Luke	12:30	For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need them.
Luke	12:31	Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you.
Luke	12:32	"Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
Luke	12:33	Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
Luke	12:34	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Luke	12:35	"Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning,
Luke	12:36	and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks.
Luke	12:37	Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes. Truly, I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them.
Luke	12:38	If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!
Luke	12:39	But know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have left his house to be broken into.
Luke	12:40	You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect."
Luke	12:41	Peter said, "Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?"
Luke	12:42	And the Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
Luke	12:43	Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Luke	12:44	Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Luke	12:45	But if that servant says to himself, 'My master is delayed in coming,' and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk,
Luke	12:46	the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful.
Luke	12:47	And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating.
Luke	12:48	But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.
Luke	12:49	"I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled!
Luke	12:50	I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it is accomplished!
Luke	12:51	Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
Luke	12:52	For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three.
Luke	12:53	They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law."
Luke	12:54	He also said to the crowds, "When you see a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, 'A shower is coming.' And so it happens.
Luke	12:55	And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, 'There will be scorching heat,' and it happens.
Luke	12:56	You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to interpret the present time?
Luke	12:57	"And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right?
Luke	12:58	As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison.
Luke	12:59	I tell you, you will never get out until you have paid the very last penny."
Luke	13:1	There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
Luke	13:2	And he answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered in this way?
Luke	13:3	No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
Luke	13:4	Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them: do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem?
Luke	13:5	No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish."
Luke	13:6	And he told this parable: "A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none.
Luke	13:7	And he said to the vinedresser, 'Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground?'
Luke	13:8	And he answered him, 'Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure.
Luke	13:9	Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.'"
Luke	13:10	Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
Luke	13:11	And there was a woman who had had a disabling spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not fully straighten herself.
Luke	13:12	When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your disability."
Luke	13:13	And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God.
Luke	13:14	But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people, "There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day."
Luke	13:15	Then the Lord answered him, "You hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it?
Luke	13:16	And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?"
Luke	13:17	As he said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame, and all the people rejoiced at all the glorious things that were done by him.
Luke	13:18	He said therefore, "What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
Luke	13:19	It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches."
Luke	13:20	And again he said, "To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
Luke	13:21	It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened."
Luke	13:22	He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem.
Luke	13:23	And someone said to him, "Lord, will those who are saved be few?" And he said to them,
Luke	13:24	"Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able.
Luke	13:25	When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, 'Lord, open to us,' then he will answer you, 'I do not know where you come from.'
Luke	13:26	Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.'
Luke	13:27	But he will say, 'I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of evil!'
Luke	13:28	In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God but you yourselves cast out.
Luke	13:29	And people will come from east and west, and from north and south, and recline at table in the kingdom of God.
Luke	13:30	And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last."
Luke	13:31	At that very hour some Pharisees came and said to him, "Get away from here, for Herod wants to kill you."
Luke	13:32	And he said to them, "Go and tell that fox, 'Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course.
Luke	13:33	Nevertheless, I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.'
Luke	13:34	O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!
Luke	13:35	Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!'"
Luke	14:1	One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully.
Luke	14:2	And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy.
Luke	14:3	And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?"
Luke	14:4	But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him and sent him away.
Luke	14:5	And he said to them, "Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out?"
Luke	14:6	And they could not reply to these things.
Luke	14:7	Now he told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the places of honor, saying to them,
Luke	14:8	"When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him,
Luke	14:9	and he who invited you both will come and say to you, 'Give your place to this person,' and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place.
Luke	14:10	But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to you, 'Friend, move up higher.' Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you.
Luke	14:11	For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted."
Luke	14:12	He said also to the man who had invited him, "When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid.
Luke	14:13	But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,
Luke	14:14	and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will be repaid at the resurrection of the just."
Luke	14:15	When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, "Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God!"
Luke	14:16	But he said to him, "A man once gave a great banquet and invited many.
Luke	14:17	And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, 'Come, for everything is now ready.'
Luke	14:18	But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, 'I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused.'
Luke	14:19	And another said, 'I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused.'
Luke	14:20	And another said, 'I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.'
Luke	14:21	So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, 'Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame.'
Luke	14:22	And the servant said, 'Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.'
Luke	14:23	And the master said to the servant, 'Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled.
Luke	14:24	For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.'"
Luke	14:25	Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them,
Luke	14:26	"If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke	14:27	Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
Luke	14:28	For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
Luke	14:29	Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him,
Luke	14:30	saying, 'This man began to build and was not able to finish.'
Luke	14:31	Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
Luke	14:32	And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace.
Luke	14:33	So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.
Luke	14:34	"Salt is good, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored?
Luke	14:35	It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown away. He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
Luke	15:1	Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him.
Luke	15:2	And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, "This man receives sinners and eats with them."
Luke	15:3	So he told them this parable:
Luke	15:4	"What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it?
Luke	15:5	And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Luke	15:6	And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.'
Luke	15:7	Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance.
Luke	15:8	"Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it?
Luke	15:9	And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.'
Luke	15:10	Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents."
Luke	15:11	And he said, "There was a man who had two sons.
Luke	15:12	And the younger of them said to his father, 'Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me.' And he divided his property between them.
Luke	15:13	Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living.
Luke	15:14	And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need.
Luke	15:15	So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
Luke	15:16	And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything.
Luke	15:17	"But when he came to himself, he said, 'How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger!
Luke	15:18	I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
Luke	15:19	I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants."'
Luke	15:20	And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.
Luke	15:21	And the son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.'
Luke	15:22	But the father said to his servants, 'Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.
Luke	15:23	And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate.
Luke	15:24	For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.' And they began to celebrate.
Luke	15:25	"Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
Luke	15:26	And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
Luke	15:27	And he said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.'
Luke	15:28	But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,
Luke	15:29	but he answered his father, 'Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.
Luke	15:30	But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!'
Luke	15:31	And he said to him, 'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
Luke	15:32	It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.'"
Luke	16:1	He also said to the disciples, "There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his possessions.
Luke	16:2	And he called him and said to him, 'What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be manager.'
Luke	16:3	And the manager said to himself, 'What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
Luke	16:4	I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management, people may receive me into their houses.'
Luke	16:5	So, summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, 'How much do you owe my master?'
Luke	16:6	He said, 'A hundred measures of oil.' He said to him, 'Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.'
Luke	16:7	Then he said to another, 'And how much do you owe?' He said, 'A hundred measures of wheat.' He said to him, 'Take your bill, and write eighty.'
Luke	16:8	The master commended the dishonest manager for his shrewdness. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of light.
Luke	16:9	And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings.
Luke	16:10	"One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much.
Luke	16:11	If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches?
Luke	16:12	And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?
Luke	16:13	No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money."
Luke	16:14	The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things, and they ridiculed him.
Luke	16:15	And he said to them, "You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
Luke	16:16	"The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into it.
Luke	16:17	But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to become void.
Luke	16:18	"Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.
Luke	16:19	"There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day.
Luke	16:20	And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores,
Luke	16:21	who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
Luke	16:22	The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried,
Luke	16:23	and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side.
Luke	16:24	And he called out, 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.'
Luke	16:25	But Abraham said, 'Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.
Luke	16:26	And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.'
Luke	16:27	And he said, 'Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house--
Luke	16:28	for I have five brothers--so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.'
Luke	16:29	But Abraham said, 'They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.'
Luke	16:30	And he said, 'No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.'
Luke	16:31	He said to him, 'If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.'"
Luke	17:1	And he said to his disciples, "Temptations to sin are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom they come!
Luke	17:2	It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he should cause one of these little ones to sin.
Luke	17:3	Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him,
Luke	17:4	and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, 'I repent,' you must forgive him."
Luke	17:5	The apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith!"
Luke	17:6	And the Lord said, "If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, 'Be uprooted and planted in the sea,' and it would obey you.
Luke	17:7	"Will any one of you who has a servant plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, 'Come at once and recline at table'?
Luke	17:8	Will he not rather say to him, 'Prepare supper for me, and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink'?
Luke	17:9	Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded?
Luke	17:10	So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, 'We are unworthy servants; we have only done what was our duty.'"
Luke	17:11	On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee.
Luke	17:12	And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers, who stood at a distance
Luke	17:13	and lifted up their voices, saying, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us."
Luke	17:14	When he saw them he said to them, "Go and show yourselves to the priests." And as they went they were cleansed.
Luke	17:15	Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice;
Luke	17:16	and he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan.
Luke	17:17	Then Jesus answered, "Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
Luke	17:18	Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?"
Luke	17:19	And he said to him, "Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well."
Luke	17:20	Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, "The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed,
Luke	17:21	nor will they say, 'Look, here it is!' or 'There!' for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you."
Luke	17:22	And he said to the disciples, "The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
Luke	17:23	And they will say to you, 'Look, there!' or 'Look, here!' Do not go out or follow them.
Luke	17:24	For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
Luke	17:25	But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
Luke	17:26	Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man.
Luke	17:27	They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Luke	17:28	Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot--they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building,
Luke	17:29	but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all--
Luke	17:30	so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.
Luke	17:31	On that day, let the one who is on the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back.
Luke	17:32	Remember Lot's wife.
Luke	17:33	Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it.
Luke	17:34	I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed. One will be taken and the other left.
Luke	17:35	There will be two women grinding together. One will be taken and the other left."
Luke	17:36	See Footnote
Luke	17:37	And they said to him, "Where, Lord?" He said to them, "Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather."
Luke	18:1	And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart.
Luke	18:2	He said, "In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man.
Luke	18:3	And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, 'Give me justice against my adversary.'
Luke	18:4	For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, 'Though I neither fear God nor respect man,
Luke	18:5	yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming.'"
Luke	18:6	And the Lord said, "Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
Luke	18:7	And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them?
Luke	18:8	I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?"
Luke	18:9	He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt:
Luke	18:10	"Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
Luke	18:11	The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: 'God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
Luke	18:12	I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.'
Luke	18:13	But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, 'God, be merciful to me, a sinner!'
Luke	18:14	I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted."
Luke	18:15	Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
Luke	18:16	But Jesus called them to him, saying, "Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
Luke	18:17	Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it."
Luke	18:18	And a ruler asked him, "Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
Luke	18:19	And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Luke	18:20	You know the commandments: 'Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.'"
Luke	18:21	And he said, "All these I have kept from my youth."
Luke	18:22	When Jesus heard this, he said to him, "One thing you still lack. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
Luke	18:23	But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich.
Luke	18:24	Jesus, looking at him with sadness, said, "How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
Luke	18:25	For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."
Luke	18:26	Those who heard it said, "Then who can be saved?"
Luke	18:27	But he said, "What is impossible with men is possible with God."
Luke	18:28	And Peter said, "See, we have left our homes and followed you."
Luke	18:29	And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
Luke	18:30	who will not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life."
Luke	18:31	And taking the twelve, he said to them, "See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished.
Luke	18:32	For he will be delivered over to the Gentiles and will be mocked and shamefully treated and spit upon.
Luke	18:33	And after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise."
Luke	18:34	But they understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they did not grasp what was said.
Luke	18:35	As he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging.
Luke	18:36	And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant.
Luke	18:37	They told him, "Jesus of Nazareth is passing by."
Luke	18:38	And he cried out, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Luke	18:39	And those who were in front rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Luke	18:40	And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him,
Luke	18:41	"What do you want me to do for you?" He said, "Lord, let me recover my sight."
Luke	18:42	And Jesus said to him, "Recover your sight; your faith has made you well."
Luke	18:43	And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God.
Luke	19:1	He entered Jericho and was passing through.
Luke	19:2	And there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich.
Luke	19:3	And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small of stature.
Luke	19:4	So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way.
Luke	19:5	And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, "Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today."
Luke	19:6	So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully.
Luke	19:7	And when they saw it, they all grumbled, "He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner."
Luke	19:8	And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, "Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold."
Luke	19:9	And Jesus said to him, "Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham.
Luke	19:10	For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost."
Luke	19:11	As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately.
Luke	19:12	He said therefore, "A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return.
Luke	19:13	Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, 'Engage in business until I come.'
Luke	19:14	But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, 'We do not want this man to reign over us.'
Luke	19:15	When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business.
Luke	19:16	The first came before him, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.'
Luke	19:17	And he said to him, 'Well done, good servant! Because you have been faithful in a very little, you shall have authority over ten cities.'
Luke	19:18	And the second came, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made five minas.'
Luke	19:19	And he said to him, 'And you are to be over five cities.'
Luke	19:20	Then another came, saying, 'Lord, here is your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief;
Luke	19:21	for I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.'
Luke	19:22	He said to him, 'I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant! You knew that I was a severe man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow?
Luke	19:23	Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with interest?'
Luke	19:24	And he said to those who stood by, 'Take the mina from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.'
Luke	19:25	And they said to him, 'Lord, he has ten minas!'
Luke	19:26	'I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Luke	19:27	But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me.'"
Luke	19:28	And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
Luke	19:29	When he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of the disciples,
Luke	19:30	saying, "Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here.
Luke	19:31	If anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?' you shall say this: 'The Lord has need of it.'"
Luke	19:32	So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them.
Luke	19:33	And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?"
Luke	19:34	And they said, "The Lord has need of it."
Luke	19:35	And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it.
Luke	19:36	And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road.
Luke	19:37	As he was drawing near--already on the way down the Mount of Olives--the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen,
Luke	19:38	saying, "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!"
Luke	19:39	And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples."
Luke	19:40	He answered, "I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out."
Luke	19:41	And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it,
Luke	19:42	saying, "Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes.
Luke	19:43	For the days will come upon you, when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side
Luke	19:44	and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you. And they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation."
Luke	19:45	And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold,
Luke	19:46	saying to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be a house of prayer,' but you have made it a den of robbers."
Luke	19:47	And he was teaching daily in the temple. The chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people were seeking to destroy him,
Luke	19:48	but they did not find anything they could do, for all the people were hanging on his words.
Luke	20:1	One day, as Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up
Luke	20:2	and said to him, "Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this authority."
Luke	20:3	He answered them, "I also will ask you a question. Now tell me,
Luke	20:4	Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?"
Luke	20:5	And they discussed it with one another, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why did you not believe him?'
Luke	20:6	But if we say, 'From man,' all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet."
Luke	20:7	So they answered that they did not know where it came from.
Luke	20:8	And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."
Luke	20:9	And he began to tell the people this parable: "A man planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants and went into another country for a long while.
Luke	20:10	When the time came, he sent a servant to the tenants, so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Luke	20:11	And he sent another servant. But they also beat and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed.
Luke	20:12	And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out.
Luke	20:13	Then the owner of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.'
Luke	20:14	But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, 'This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours.'
Luke	20:15	And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
Luke	20:16	He will come and destroy those tenants and give the vineyard to others." When they heard this, they said, "Surely not!"
Luke	20:17	But he looked directly at them and said, "What then is this that is written: "'The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone'?
Luke	20:18	Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him."
Luke	20:19	The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people.
Luke	20:20	So they watched him and sent spies, who pretended to be sincere, that they might catch him in something he said, so as to deliver him up to the authority and jurisdiction of the governor.
Luke	20:21	So they asked him, "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and show no partiality, but truly teach the way of God.
Luke	20:22	Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not?"
Luke	20:23	But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them,
Luke	20:24	"Show me a denarius. Whose likeness and inscription does it have?" They said, "Caesar's."
Luke	20:25	He said to them, "Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
Luke	20:26	And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer they became silent.
Luke	20:27	There came to him some Sadducees, those who deny that there is a resurrection,
Luke	20:28	and they asked him a question, saying, "Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife but no children, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Luke	20:29	Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children.
Luke	20:30	And the second
Luke	20:31	and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died.
Luke	20:32	Afterward the woman also died.
Luke	20:33	In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife."
Luke	20:34	And Jesus said to them, "The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,
Luke	20:35	but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage,
Luke	20:36	for they cannot die anymore, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
Luke	20:37	But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed, in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
Luke	20:38	Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him."
Luke	20:39	Then some of the scribes answered, "Teacher, you have spoken well."
Luke	20:40	For they no longer dared to ask him any question.
Luke	20:41	But he said to them, "How can they say that the Christ is David's son?
Luke	20:42	For David himself says in the Book of Psalms, "'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Luke	20:43	until I make your enemies your footstool.'
Luke	20:44	David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?"
Luke	20:45	And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples,
Luke	20:46	"Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Luke	20:47	who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation."
Luke	21:1	Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box,
Luke	21:2	and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins.
Luke	21:3	And he said, "Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.
Luke	21:4	For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on."
Luke	21:5	And while some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he said,
Luke	21:6	"As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."
Luke	21:7	And they asked him, "Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?"
Luke	21:8	And he said, "See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he!' and, 'The time is at hand!' Do not go after them.
Luke	21:9	And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not be at once."
Luke	21:10	Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
Luke	21:11	There will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences. And there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
Luke	21:12	But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake.
Luke	21:13	This will be your opportunity to bear witness.
Luke	21:14	Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer,
Luke	21:15	for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.
Luke	21:16	You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and some of you they will put to death.
Luke	21:17	You will be hated by all for my name's sake.
Luke	21:18	But not a hair of your head will perish.
Luke	21:19	By your endurance you will gain your lives.
Luke	21:20	"But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near.
Luke	21:21	Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out in the country enter it,
Luke	21:22	for these are days of vengeance, to fulfill all that is written.
Luke	21:23	Alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! For there will be great distress upon the earth and wrath against this people.
Luke	21:24	They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Luke	21:25	"And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the sea and the waves,
Luke	21:26	people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Luke	21:27	And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
Luke	21:28	Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near."
Luke	21:29	And he told them a parable: "Look at the fig tree, and all the trees.
Luke	21:30	As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near.
Luke	21:31	So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Luke	21:32	Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place.
Luke	21:33	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
Luke	21:34	"But watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap.
Luke	21:35	For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luke	21:36	But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are going to take place, and to stand before the Son of Man."
Luke	21:37	And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount called Olivet.
Luke	21:38	And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.
Luke	22:1	Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread drew near, which is called the Passover.
Luke	22:2	And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put him to death, for they feared the people.
Luke	22:3	Then Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.
Luke	22:4	He went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them.
Luke	22:5	And they were glad, and agreed to give him money.
Luke	22:6	So he consented and sought an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of a crowd.
Luke	22:7	Then came the day of Unleavened Bread, on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed.
Luke	22:8	So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat it."
Luke	22:9	They said to him, "Where will you have us prepare it?"
Luke	22:10	He said to them, "Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters
Luke	22:11	and tell the master of the house, 'The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?'
Luke	22:12	And he will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare it there."
Luke	22:13	And they went and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
Luke	22:14	And when the hour came, he reclined at table, and the apostles with him.
Luke	22:15	And he said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
Luke	22:16	For I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God."
Luke	22:17	And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said, "Take this, and divide it among yourselves.
Luke	22:18	For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes."
Luke	22:19	And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."
Luke	22:20	And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, "This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.
Luke	22:21	But behold, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table.
Luke	22:22	For the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed!"
Luke	22:23	And they began to question one another, which of them it could be who was going to do this.
Luke	22:24	A dispute also arose among them, as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest.
Luke	22:25	And he said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors.
Luke	22:26	But not so with you. Rather, let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves.
Luke	22:27	For who is the greater, one who reclines at table or one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as the one who serves.
Luke	22:28	"You are those who have stayed with me in my trials,
Luke	22:29	and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom,
Luke	22:30	that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Luke	22:31	"Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat,
Luke	22:32	but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers."
Luke	22:33	Peter said to him, "Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death."
Luke	22:34	Jesus said, "I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you deny three times that you know me."
Luke	22:35	And he said to them, "When I sent you out with no moneybag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything?" They said, "Nothing."
Luke	22:36	He said to them, "But now let the one who has a moneybag take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one.
Luke	22:37	For I tell you that this Scripture must be fulfilled in me: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors.' For what is written about me has its fulfillment."
Luke	22:38	And they said, "Look, Lord, here are two swords." And he said to them, "It is enough."
Luke	22:39	And he came out and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed him.
Luke	22:40	And when he came to the place, he said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation."
Luke	22:41	And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed,
Luke	22:42	saying, "Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done."
Luke	22:43	And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
Luke	22:44	And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly; and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
Luke	22:45	And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow,
Luke	22:46	and he said to them, "Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation."
Luke	22:47	While he was still speaking, there came a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him,
Luke	22:48	but Jesus said to him, "Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?"
Luke	22:49	And when those who were around him saw what would follow, they said, "Lord, shall we strike with the sword?"
Luke	22:50	And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Luke	22:51	But Jesus said, "No more of this!" And he touched his ear and healed him.
Luke	22:52	Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders, who had come out against him, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
Luke	22:53	When I was with you day after day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness."
Luke	22:54	Then they seized him and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house, and Peter was following at a distance.
Luke	22:55	And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat down among them.
Luke	22:56	Then a servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light and looking closely at him, said, "This man also was with him."
Luke	22:57	But he denied it, saying, "Woman, I do not know him."
Luke	22:58	And a little later someone else saw him and said, "You also are one of them." But Peter said, "Man, I am not."
Luke	22:59	And after an interval of about an hour still another insisted, saying, "Certainly this man also was with him, for he too is a Galilean."
Luke	22:60	But Peter said, "Man, I do not know what you are talking about." And immediately, while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed.
Luke	22:61	And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had said to him, "Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times."
Luke	22:62	And he went out and wept bitterly.
Luke	22:63	Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him.
Luke	22:64	They also blindfolded him and kept asking him, "Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?"
Luke	22:65	And they said many other things against him, blaspheming him.
Luke	22:66	When day came, the assembly of the elders of the people gathered together, both chief priests and scribes. And they led him away to their council, and they said,
Luke	22:67	"If you are the Christ, tell us." But he said to them, "If I tell you, you will not believe,
Luke	22:68	and if I ask you, you will not answer.
Luke	22:69	But from now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God."
Luke	22:70	So they all said, "Are you the Son of God, then?" And he said to them, "You say that I am."
Luke	22:71	Then they said, "What further testimony do we need? We have heard it ourselves from his own lips."
Luke	23:1	Then the whole company of them arose and brought him before Pilate.
Luke	23:2	And they began to accuse him, saying, "We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ, a king."
Luke	23:3	And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
Luke	23:4	Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, "I find no guilt in this man."
Luke	23:5	But they were urgent, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even to this place."
Luke	23:6	When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
Luke	23:7	And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was himself in Jerusalem at that time.
Luke	23:8	When Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, for he had long desired to see him, because he had heard about him, and he was hoping to see some sign done by him.
Luke	23:9	So he questioned him at some length, but he made no answer.
Luke	23:10	The chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing him.
Luke	23:11	And Herod with his soldiers treated him with contempt and mocked him. Then, arraying him in splendid clothing, he sent him back to Pilate.
Luke	23:12	And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before this they had been at enmity with each other.
Luke	23:13	Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Luke	23:14	and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was misleading the people. And after examining him before you, behold, I did not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him.
Luke	23:15	Neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Look, nothing deserving death has been done by him.
Luke	23:16	I will therefore punish and release him."
Luke	23:17	See Footnote
Luke	23:18	But they all cried out together, "Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas"--
Luke	23:19	a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city and for murder.
Luke	23:20	Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus,
Luke	23:21	but they kept shouting, "Crucify, crucify him!"
Luke	23:22	A third time he said to them, "Why, what evil has he done? I have found in him no guilt deserving death. I will therefore punish and release him."
Luke	23:23	But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified. And their voices prevailed.
Luke	23:24	So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
Luke	23:25	He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Jesus over to their will.
Luke	23:26	And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it behind Jesus.
Luke	23:27	And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him.
Luke	23:28	But turning to them Jesus said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
Luke	23:29	For behold, the days are coming when they will say, 'Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!'
Luke	23:30	Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us.'
Luke	23:31	For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?"
Luke	23:32	Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him.
Luke	23:33	And when they came to the place that is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right and one on his left.
Luke	23:34	And Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." And they cast lots to divide his garments.
Luke	23:35	And the people stood by, watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, "He saved others; let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One!"
Luke	23:36	The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine
Luke	23:37	and saying, "If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!"
Luke	23:38	There was also an inscription over him, "This is the King of the Jews."
Luke	23:39	One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, "Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!"
Luke	23:40	But the other rebuked him, saying, "Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?
Luke	23:41	And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong."
Luke	23:42	And he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom."
Luke	23:43	And he said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise."
Luke	23:44	It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour,
Luke	23:45	while the sun's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two.
Luke	23:46	Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!" And having said this he breathed his last.
Luke	23:47	Now when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, "Certainly this man was innocent!"
Luke	23:48	And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts.
Luke	23:49	And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things.
Luke	23:50	Now there was a man named Joseph, from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man,
Luke	23:51	who had not consented to their decision and action; and he was looking for the kingdom of God.
Luke	23:52	This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Luke	23:53	Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and laid him in a tomb cut in stone, where no one had ever yet been laid.
Luke	23:54	It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning.
Luke	23:55	The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid.
Luke	23:56	Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments.On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.
Luke	24:1	But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared.
Luke	24:2	And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,
Luke	24:3	but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
Luke	24:4	While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel.
Luke	24:5	And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the dead?
Luke	24:6	He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,
Luke	24:7	that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise."
Luke	24:8	And they remembered his words,
Luke	24:9	and returning from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
Luke	24:10	Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles,
Luke	24:11	but these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them.
Luke	24:12	But Peter rose and ran to the tomb; stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves; and he went home marveling at what had happened.
Luke	24:13	That very day two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem,
Luke	24:14	and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened.
Luke	24:15	While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them.
Luke	24:16	But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
Luke	24:17	And he said to them, "What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk?" And they stood still, looking sad.
Luke	24:18	Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, "Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?"
Luke	24:19	And he said to them, "What things?" And they said to him, "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,
Luke	24:20	and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
Luke	24:21	But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened.
Luke	24:22	Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning,
Luke	24:23	and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
Luke	24:24	Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see."
Luke	24:25	And he said to them, "O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
Luke	24:26	Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?"
Luke	24:27	And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.
Luke	24:28	So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther,
Luke	24:29	but they urged him strongly, saying, "Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far spent." So he went in to stay with them.
Luke	24:30	When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them.
Luke	24:31	And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their sight.
Luke	24:32	They said to each other, "Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the Scriptures?"
Luke	24:33	And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together,
Luke	24:34	saying, "The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!"
Luke	24:35	Then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread.
Luke	24:36	As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, "Peace to you!"
Luke	24:37	But they were startled and frightened and thought they saw a spirit.
Luke	24:38	And he said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
Luke	24:39	See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have."
Luke	24:40	And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
Luke	24:41	And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, "Have you anything here to eat?"
Luke	24:42	They gave him a piece of broiled fish,
Luke	24:43	and he took it and ate before them.
Luke	24:44	Then he said to them, "These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled."
Luke	24:45	Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
Luke	24:46	and said to them, "Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead,
Luke	24:47	and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
Luke	24:48	You are witnesses of these things.
Luke	24:49	And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high."
Luke	24:50	Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them.
Luke	24:51	While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Luke	24:52	And they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
Luke	24:53	and were continually in the temple blessing God.
John	1:1	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
John	1:2	He was in the beginning with God.
John	1:3	All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.
John	1:4	In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
John	1:5	The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
John	1:6	There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
John	1:7	He came as a witness, to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him.
John	1:8	He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light.
John	1:9	The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.
John	1:10	He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him.
John	1:11	He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him.
John	1:12	But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,
John	1:13	who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
John	1:14	And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
John	1:15	(John bore witness about him, and cried out, "This was he of whom I said, 'He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me.'")
John	1:16	And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace.
John	1:17	For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
John	1:18	No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known.
John	1:19	And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?"
John	1:20	He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, "I am not the Christ."
John	1:21	And they asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not.Are you the Prophet?" And he answered, "No."
John	1:22	So they said to him, "Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?"
John	1:23	He said, "I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as the prophet Isaiah said."
John	1:24	(Now they had been sent from the Pharisees.)
John	1:25	They asked him, "Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?"
John	1:26	John answered them, "I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know,
John	1:27	even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie."
John	1:28	These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
John	1:29	The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
John	1:30	This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me.'
John	1:31	I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel."
John	1:32	And John bore witness: "I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him.
John	1:33	I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, 'He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'
John	1:34	And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God."
John	1:35	The next day again John was standing with two of his disciples,
John	1:36	and he looked at Jesus as he walked by and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!"
John	1:37	The two disciples heard him say this, and they followed Jesus.
John	1:38	Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, "What are you seeking?" And they said to him, "Rabbi" (which means Teacher), "where are you staying?"
John	1:39	He said to them, "Come and you will see." So they came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
John	1:40	One of the two who heard John speak and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
John	1:41	He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which means Christ).
John	1:42	He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, "So you are Simon the son of John? You shall be called Cephas" (which means Peter ).
John	1:43	The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, "Follow me."
John	1:44	Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
John	1:45	Philip found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found him of whom Moses in the Law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
John	1:46	Nathanael said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."
John	1:47	Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him and said of him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit!"
John	1:48	Nathanael said to him, "How do you know me?" Jesus answered him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
John	1:49	Nathanael answered him, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!"
John	1:50	Jesus answered him, "Because I said to you, 'I saw you under the fig tree,' do you believe? You will see greater things than these."
John	1:51	And he said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man."
John	2:1	On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
John	2:2	Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples.
John	2:3	When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, "They have no wine."
John	2:4	And Jesus said to her, "Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come."
John	2:5	His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
John	2:6	Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons.
John	2:7	Jesus said to the servants, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them up to the brim.
John	2:8	And he said to them, "Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast." So they took it.
John	2:9	When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom
John	2:10	and said to him, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now."
John	2:11	This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him.
John	2:12	After this he went down to Capernaum, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days.
John	2:13	The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John	2:14	In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money-changers sitting there.
John	2:15	And making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
John	2:16	And he told those who sold the pigeons, "Take these things away; do not make my Father's house a house of trade."
John	2:17	His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will consume me."
John	2:18	So the Jews said to him, "What sign do you show us for doing these things?"
John	2:19	Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
John	2:20	The Jews then said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days?"
John	2:21	But he was speaking about the temple of his body.
John	2:22	When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken.
John	2:23	Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing.
John	2:24	But Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people
John	2:25	and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man.
John	3:1	Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
John	3:2	This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him."
John	3:3	Jesus answered him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God."
John	3:4	Nicodemus said to him, "How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?"
John	3:5	Jesus answered, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
John	3:6	That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
John	3:7	Do not marvel that I said to you, 'You must be born again.'
John	3:8	The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit."
John	3:9	Nicodemus said to him, "How can these things be?"
John	3:10	Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things?
John	3:11	Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony.
John	3:12	If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
John	3:13	No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.
John	3:14	And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
John	3:15	that whoever believes in him may have eternal life.
John	3:16	"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
John	3:17	For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him.
John	3:18	Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.
John	3:19	And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their deeds were evil.
John	3:20	For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed.
John	3:21	But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God."
John	3:22	After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing.
John	3:23	John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized
John	3:24	(for John had not yet been put in prison).
John	3:25	Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification.
John	3:26	And they came to John and said to him, "Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness--look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him."
John	3:27	John answered, "A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven.
John	3:28	You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, 'I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him.'
John	3:29	The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete.
John	3:30	He must increase, but I must decrease."
John	3:31	He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all.
John	3:32	He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony.
John	3:33	Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true.
John	3:34	For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure.
John	3:35	The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand.
John	3:36	Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.
John	4:1	Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
John	4:2	(although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),
John	4:3	he left Judea and departed again for Galilee.
John	4:4	And he had to pass through Samaria.
John	4:5	So he came to a town of Samaria called Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph.
John	4:6	Jacob's well was there; so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour.
John	4:7	There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink."
John	4:8	(For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.)
John	4:9	The Samaritan woman said to him, "How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria?" (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
John	4:10	Jesus answered her, "If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, 'Give me a drink,' you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water."
John	4:11	The woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water?
John	4:12	Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock."
John	4:13	Jesus said to her, "Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again,
John	4:14	but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty forever. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life."
John	4:15	The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water."
John	4:16	Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."
John	4:17	The woman answered him, "I have no husband." Jesus said to her, "You are right in saying, 'I have no husband';
John	4:18	for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true."
John	4:19	The woman said to him, "Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.
John	4:20	Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship."
John	4:21	Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
John	4:22	You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.
John	4:23	But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him.
John	4:24	God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth."
John	4:25	The woman said to him, "I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ). When he comes, he will tell us all things."
John	4:26	Jesus said to her, "I who speak to you am he."
John	4:27	Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, "What do you seek?" or, "Why are you talking with her?"
John	4:28	So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people,
John	4:29	"Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ?"
John	4:30	They went out of the town and were coming to him.
John	4:31	Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, "Rabbi, eat."
John	4:32	But he said to them, "I have food to eat that you do not know about."
John	4:33	So the disciples said to one another, "Has anyone brought him something to eat?"
John	4:34	Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work.
John	4:35	Do you not say, 'There are yet four months, then comes the harvest'? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest.
John	4:36	Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together.
John	4:37	For here the saying holds true, 'One sows and another reaps.'
John	4:38	I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor."
John	4:39	Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony, "He told me all that I ever did."
John	4:40	So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days.
John	4:41	And many more believed because of his word.
John	4:42	They said to the woman, "It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world."
John	4:43	After the two days he departed for Galilee.
John	4:44	(For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown.)
John	4:45	So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast. For they too had gone to the feast.
John	4:46	So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill.
John	4:47	When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
John	4:48	So Jesus said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe."
John	4:49	The official said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies."
John	4:50	Jesus said to him, "Go; your son will live." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way.
John	4:51	As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering.
John	4:52	So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, "Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him."
John	4:53	The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, "Your son will live." And he himself believed, and all his household.
John	4:54	This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.
John	5:1	After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John	5:2	Now there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool, in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roofed colonnades.
John	5:3	In these lay a multitude of invalids--blind, lame, and paralyzed.
John	5:4	See Footnote
John	5:5	One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years.
John	5:6	When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, "Do you want to be healed?"
John	5:7	The sick man answered him, "Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going another steps down before me."
John	5:8	Jesus said to him, "Get up, take up your bed, and walk."
John	5:9	And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked.Now that day was the Sabbath.
John	5:10	So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, "It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed."
John	5:11	But he answered them, "The man who healed me, that man said to me, 'Take up your bed, and walk.'"
John	5:12	They asked him, "Who is the man who said to you, 'Take up your bed and walk'?"
John	5:13	Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place.
John	5:14	Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, "See, you are well! Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you."
John	5:15	The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him.
John	5:16	And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath.
John	5:17	But Jesus answered them, "My Father is working until now, and I am working."
John	5:18	This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God.
John	5:19	So Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise.
John	5:20	For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel.
John	5:21	For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will.
John	5:22	The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,
John	5:23	that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
John	5:24	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life.
John	5:25	"Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
John	5:26	For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself.
John	5:27	And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
John	5:28	Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice
John	5:29	and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.
John	5:30	"I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me.
John	5:31	If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not deemed true.
John	5:32	There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true.
John	5:33	You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth.
John	5:34	Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved.
John	5:35	He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.
John	5:36	But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me.
John	5:37	And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen,
John	5:38	and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent.
John	5:39	You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,
John	5:40	yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life.
John	5:41	I do not receive glory from people.
John	5:42	But I know that you do not have the love of God within you.
John	5:43	I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
John	5:44	How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God?
John	5:45	Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you: Moses, on whom you have set your hope.
John	5:46	If you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me.
John	5:47	But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?"
John	6:1	After this Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.
John	6:2	And a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick.
John	6:3	Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples.
John	6:4	Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.
John	6:5	Lifting up his eyes, then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, "Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat?"
John	6:6	He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.
John	6:7	Philip answered him, "Two hundred denarii would not buy enough bread for each of them to get a little."
John	6:8	One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him,
John	6:9	"There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many?"
John	6:10	Jesus said, "Have the people sit down." Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number.
John	6:11	Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted.
John	6:12	And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, "Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost."
John	6:13	So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves, left by those who had eaten.
John	6:14	When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, "This is indeed the Prophet who is to come into the world!"
John	6:15	Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself.
John	6:16	When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,
John	6:17	got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
John	6:18	The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing.
John	6:19	When they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they were frightened.
John	6:20	But he said to them, "It is I; do not be afraid."
John	6:21	Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.
John	6:22	On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone.
John	6:23	Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
John	6:24	So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
John	6:25	When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, "Rabbi, when did you come here?"
John	6:26	Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves.
John	6:27	Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal."
John	6:28	Then they said to him, "What must we do, to be doing the works of God?"
John	6:29	Jesus answered them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent."
John	6:30	So they said to him, "Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform?
John	6:31	Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to eat.'"
John	6:32	Jesus then said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
John	6:33	For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world."
John	6:34	They said to him, "Sir, give us this bread always."
John	6:35	Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.
John	6:36	But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe.
John	6:37	All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.
John	6:38	For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will of him who sent me.
John	6:39	And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day.
John	6:40	For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day."
John	6:41	So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, "I am the bread that came down from heaven."
John	6:42	They said, "Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, 'I have come down from heaven'?"
John	6:43	Jesus answered them, "Do not grumble among yourselves.
John	6:44	No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.
John	6:45	It is written in the Prophets, 'And they will all be taught by God.' Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me--
John	6:46	not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God; he has seen the Father.
John	6:47	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.
John	6:48	I am the bread of life.
John	6:49	Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
John	6:50	This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die.
John	6:51	I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh."
John	6:52	The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?"
John	6:53	So Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
John	6:54	Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
John	6:55	For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
John	6:56	Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
John	6:57	As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me.
John	6:58	This is the bread that came down from heaven, not as the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever."
John	6:59	Jesus said these things in the synagogue, as he taught at Capernaum.
John	6:60	When many of his disciples heard it, they said, "This is a hard saying; who can listen to it?"
John	6:61	But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, "Do you take offense at this?
John	6:62	Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before?
John	6:63	It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is of no avail. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.
John	6:64	But there are some of you who do not believe." (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.)
John	6:65	And he said, "This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father."
John	6:66	After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him.
John	6:67	So Jesus said to the Twelve, "Do you want to go away as well?"
John	6:68	Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life,
John	6:69	and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God."
John	6:70	Jesus answered them, "Did I not choose you, the Twelve? And yet one of you is a devil."
John	6:71	He spoke of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the Twelve, was going to betray him.
John	7:1	After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill him.
John	7:2	Now the Jews' Feast of Booths was at hand.
John	7:3	So his brothers said to him, "Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing.
John	7:4	For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world."
John	7:5	For not even his brothers believed in him.
John	7:6	Jesus said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always here.
John	7:7	The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil.
John	7:8	You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come."
John	7:9	After saying this, he remained in Galilee.
John	7:10	But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly but in private.
John	7:11	The Jews were looking for him at the feast, and saying, "Where is he?"
John	7:12	And there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said, "He is a good man," others said, "No, he is leading the people astray."
John	7:13	Yet for fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him.
John	7:14	About the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching.
John	7:15	The Jews therefore marveled, saying, "How is it that this man has learning, when he has never studied?"
John	7:16	So Jesus answered them, "My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.
John	7:17	If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority.
John	7:18	The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood.
John	7:19	Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me?"
John	7:20	The crowd answered, "You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill you?"
John	7:21	Jesus answered them, "I did one deed, and you all marvel at it.
John	7:22	Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath.
John	7:23	If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well?
John	7:24	Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment."
John	7:25	Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, "Is not this the man whom they seek to kill?
John	7:26	And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him! Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ?
John	7:27	But we know where this man comes from, and when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from."
John	7:28	So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, "You know me, and you know where I come from? But I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know.
John	7:29	I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me."
John	7:30	So they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come.
John	7:31	Yet many of the people believed in him. They said, "When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done?"
John	7:32	The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest him.
John	7:33	Jesus then said, "I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me.
John	7:34	You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come."
John	7:35	The Jews said to one another, "Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? Does he intend to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
John	7:36	What does he mean by saying, 'You will seek me and you will not find me,' and, 'Where I am you cannot come'?"
John	7:37	On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, "If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink.
John	7:38	Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, 'Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.'"
John	7:39	Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.
John	7:40	When they heard these words, some of the people said, "This really is the Prophet."
John	7:41	Others said, "This is the Christ." But some said, "Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
John	7:42	Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David, and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was?"
John	7:43	So there was a division among the people over him.
John	7:44	Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him.
John	7:45	The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, "Why did you not bring him?"
John	7:46	The officers answered, "No one ever spoke like this man!"
John	7:47	The Pharisees answered them, "Have you also been deceived?
John	7:48	Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him?
John	7:49	But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed."
John	7:50	Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them,
John	7:51	"Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does?"
John	7:52	They replied, "Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee." [The earliest manuscripts do not include John 7:53-8:11]
John	7:53	[[They went each to his own house,
John	8:1	but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
John	8:2	Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them.
John	8:3	The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst
John	8:4	they said to him, "Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery.
John	8:5	Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?"
John	8:6	This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground.
John	8:7	And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, "Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her."
John	8:8	And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground.
John	8:9	But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him.
John	8:10	Jesus stood up and said to her, "Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?"
John	8:11	She said, "No one, Lord." And Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more."]]
John	8:12	Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, "I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life."
John	8:13	So the Pharisees said to him, "You are bearing witness about yourself; your testimony is not true."
John	8:14	Jesus answered, "Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
John	8:15	You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
John	8:16	Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me.
John	8:17	In your Law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
John	8:18	I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me."
John	8:19	They said to him therefore, "Where is your Father?" Jesus answered, "You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, you would know my Father also."
John	8:20	These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple; but no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come.
John	8:21	So he said to them again, "I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come."
John	8:22	So the Jews said, "Will he kill himself, since he says, 'Where I am going, you cannot come'?"
John	8:23	He said to them, "You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.
John	8:24	I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins."
John	8:25	So they said to him, "Who are you?" Jesus said to them, "Just what I have been telling you from the beginning.
John	8:26	I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him."
John	8:27	They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father.
John	8:28	So Jesus said to them, "When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me.
John	8:29	And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him."
John	8:30	As he was saying these things, many believed in him.
John	8:31	So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, "If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
John	8:32	and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
John	8:33	They answered him, "We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, 'You will become free'?"
John	8:34	Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.
John	8:35	The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever.
John	8:36	So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.
John	8:37	I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you.
John	8:38	I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your father."
John	8:39	They answered him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did,
John	8:40	but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did.
John	8:41	You are doing what your father did." They said to him, "We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father--even God."
John	8:42	Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me.
John	8:43	Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word.
John	8:44	You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
John	8:45	But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me.
John	8:46	Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?
John	8:47	Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God."
John	8:48	The Jews answered him, "Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?"
John	8:49	Jesus answered, "I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
John	8:50	Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge.
John	8:51	Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death."
John	8:52	The Jews said to him, "Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, 'If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.'
John	8:53	Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you make yourself out to be?"
John	8:54	Jesus answered, "If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, 'He is our God.'
John	8:55	But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word.
John	8:56	Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad."
John	8:57	So the Jews said to him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?"
John	8:58	Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am."
John	8:59	So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
John	9:1	As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
John	9:2	And his disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?"
John	9:3	Jesus answered, "It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him.
John	9:4	We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work.
John	9:5	As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world."
John	9:6	Having said these things, he spat on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud
John	9:7	and said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which means Sent). So he went and washed and came back seeing.
John	9:8	The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, "Is this not the man who used to sit and beg?"
John	9:9	Some said, "It is he." Others said, "No, but he is like him." He kept saying, "I am the man."
John	9:10	So they said to him, "Then how were your eyes opened?"
John	9:11	He answered, "The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, 'Go to Siloam and wash.' So I went and washed and received my sight."
John	9:12	They said to him, "Where is he?" He said, "I do not know."
John	9:13	They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind.
John	9:14	Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.
John	9:15	So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, "He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see."
John	9:16	Some of the Pharisees said, "This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath." But others said, "How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?" And there was a division among them.
John	9:17	So they said again to the blind man, "What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes?" He said, "He is a prophet."
John	9:18	The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight
John	9:19	and asked them, "Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?"
John	9:20	His parents answered, "We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
John	9:21	But how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him; he is of age. He will speak for himself."
John	9:22	(His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue.)
John	9:23	Therefore his parents said, "He is of age; ask him."
John	9:24	So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, "Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner."
John	9:25	He answered, "Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see."
John	9:26	They said to him, "What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?"
John	9:27	He answered them, "I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?"
John	9:28	And they reviled him, saying, "You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.
John	9:29	We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from."
John	9:30	The man answered, "Why, this is an amazing thing! You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes.
John	9:31	We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him.
John	9:32	Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind.
John	9:33	If this man were not from God, he could do nothing."
John	9:34	They answered him, "You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us?" And they cast him out.
John	9:35	Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, "Do you believe in the Son of Man?"
John	9:36	He answered, "And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him?"
John	9:37	Jesus said to him, "You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you."
John	9:38	He said, "Lord, I believe," and he worshiped him.
John	9:39	Jesus said, "For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind."
John	9:40	Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things, and said to him, "Are we also blind?"
John	9:41	Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no guilt; but now that you say, 'We see,' your guilt remains.
John	10:1	"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber.
John	10:2	But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
John	10:3	To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
John	10:4	When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice.
John	10:5	A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers."
John	10:6	This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them.
John	10:7	So Jesus again said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
John	10:8	All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.
John	10:9	I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture.
John	10:10	The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.
John	10:11	I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
John	10:12	He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them.
John	10:13	He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep.
John	10:14	I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me,
John	10:15	just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.
John	10:16	And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.
John	10:17	For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again.
John	10:18	No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father."
John	10:19	There was again a division among the Jews because of these words.
John	10:20	Many of them said, "He has a demon, and is insane; why listen to him?"
John	10:21	Others said, "These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?"
John	10:22	At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter,
John	10:23	and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the colonnade of Solomon.
John	10:24	So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, "How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly."
John	10:25	Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me,
John	10:26	but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock.
John	10:27	My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
John	10:28	I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
John	10:29	My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand.
John	10:30	I and the Father are one."
John	10:31	The Jews picked up stones again to stone him.
John	10:32	Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?"
John	10:33	The Jews answered him, "It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God."
John	10:34	Jesus answered them, "Is it not written in your Law, 'I said, you are gods'?
John	10:35	If he called them gods to whom the word of God came--and Scripture cannot be broken--
John	10:36	do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, 'You are blaspheming,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God'?
John	10:37	If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me;
John	10:38	but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father."
John	10:39	Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands.
John	10:40	He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained.
John	10:41	And many came to him. And they said, "John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true."
John	10:42	And many believed in him there.
John	11:1	Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
John	11:2	It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill.
John	11:3	So the sisters sent to him, saying, "Lord, he whom you love is ill."
John	11:4	But when Jesus heard it he said, "This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it."
John	11:5	Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
John	11:6	So, when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was.
John	11:7	Then after this he said to the disciples, "Let us go to Judea again."
John	11:8	The disciples said to him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again?"
John	11:9	Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
John	11:10	But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him."
John	11:11	After saying these things, he said to them, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him."
John	11:12	The disciples said to him, "Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover."
John	11:13	Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep.
John	11:14	Then Jesus told them plainly, "Lazarus has died,
John	11:15	and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him."
John	11:16	So Thomas, called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, "Let us also go, that we may die with him."
John	11:17	Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days.
John	11:18	Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off,
John	11:19	and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
John	11:20	So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house.
John	11:21	Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
John	11:22	But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you."
John	11:23	Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."
John	11:24	Martha said to him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."
John	11:25	Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live,
John	11:26	and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?"
John	11:27	She said to him, "Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world."
John	11:28	When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, "The Teacher is here and is calling for you."
John	11:29	And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him.
John	11:30	Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him.
John	11:31	When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
John	11:32	Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died."
John	11:33	When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled.
John	11:34	And he said, "Where have you laid him?" They said to him, "Lord, come and see."
John	11:35	Jesus wept.
John	11:36	So the Jews said, "See how he loved him!"
John	11:37	But some of them said, "Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying?"
John	11:38	Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it.
John	11:39	Jesus said, "Take away the stone." Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, "Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days."
John	11:40	Jesus said to her, "Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God?"
John	11:41	So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, "Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
John	11:42	I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me."
John	11:43	When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come out."
John	11:44	The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, "Unbind him, and let him go."
John	11:45	Many of the Jews therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him,
John	11:46	but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
John	11:47	So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the Council and said, "What are we to do? For this man performs many signs.
John	11:48	If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation."
John	11:49	But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all.
John	11:50	Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish."
John	11:51	He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,
John	11:52	and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
John	11:53	So from that day on they made plans to put him to death.
John	11:54	Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with the disciples.
John	11:55	Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves.
John	11:56	They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, "What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all?"
John	11:57	Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest him.
John	12:1	Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
John	12:2	So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table.
John	12:3	Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
John	12:4	But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was about to betray him), said,
John	12:5	"Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?"
John	12:6	He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it.
John	12:7	Jesus said, "Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial.
John	12:8	The poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me."
John	12:9	When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came, not only on account of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
John	12:10	So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well,
John	12:11	because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus.
John	12:12	The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem.
John	12:13	So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!"
John	12:14	And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written,
John	12:15	"Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!"
John	12:16	His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him.
John	12:17	The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness.
John	12:18	The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign.
John	12:19	So the Pharisees said to one another, "You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him."
John	12:20	Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks.
John	12:21	So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, "Sir, we wish to see Jesus."
John	12:22	Philip went and told Andrew; Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus.
John	12:23	And Jesus answered them, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
John	12:24	Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
John	12:25	Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
John	12:26	If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
John	12:27	"Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? 'Father, save me from this hour'? But for this purpose I have come to this hour.
John	12:28	Father, glorify your name." Then a voice came from heaven: "I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again."
John	12:29	The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, "An angel has spoken to him."
John	12:30	Jesus answered, "This voice has come for your sake, not mine.
John	12:31	Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of this world be cast out.
John	12:32	And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."
John	12:33	He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
John	12:34	So the crowd answered him, "We have heard from the Law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?"
John	12:35	So Jesus said to them, "The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.
John	12:36	While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light."When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them.
John	12:37	Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him,
John	12:38	so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: "Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
John	12:39	Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said,
John	12:40	"He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them."
John	12:41	Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him.
John	12:42	Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue;
John	12:43	for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God.
John	12:44	And Jesus cried out and said, "Whoever believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me.
John	12:45	And whoever sees me sees him who sent me.
John	12:46	I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness.
John	12:47	If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world.
John	12:48	The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.
John	12:49	For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment--what to say and what to speak.
John	12:50	And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me."
John	13:1	Now before the Feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
John	13:2	During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him,
John	13:3	Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God,
John	13:4	rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist.
John	13:5	Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
John	13:6	He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"
John	13:7	Jesus answered him, "What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand."
John	13:8	Peter said to him, "You shall never wash my feet." Jesus answered him, "If I do not wash you, you have no share with me."
John	13:9	Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my head!"
John	13:10	Jesus said to him, "The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you."
John	13:11	For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, "Not all of you are clean."
John	13:12	When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, "Do you understand what I have done to you?
John	13:13	You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am.
John	13:14	If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
John	13:15	For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you.
John	13:16	Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.
John	13:17	If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
John	13:18	I am not speaking of all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But the Scripture will be fulfilled, 'He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.'
John	13:19	I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am he.
John	13:20	Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me."
John	13:21	After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit, and testified, "Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me."
John	13:22	The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke.
John	13:23	One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table close to Jesus,
John	13:24	so Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking.
John	13:25	So that disciple, leaning back against Jesus, said to him, "Lord, who is it?"
John	13:26	Jesus answered, "It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it." So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
John	13:27	Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, "What you are going to do, do quickly."
John	13:28	Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him.
John	13:29	Some thought that, because Judas had the moneybag, Jesus was telling him, "Buy what we need for the feast," or that he should give something to the poor.
John	13:30	So, after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out. And it was night.
John	13:31	When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
John	13:32	If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him at once.
John	13:33	Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, 'Where I am going you cannot come.'
John	13:34	A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.
John	13:35	By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."
John	13:36	Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered him, "Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward."
John	13:37	Peter said to him, "Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you."
John	13:38	Jesus answered, "Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times.
John	14:1	"Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me.
John	14:2	In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?
John	14:3	And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.
John	14:4	And you know the way to where I am going."
John	14:5	Thomas said to him, "Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?"
John	14:6	Jesus said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
John	14:7	If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him."
John	14:8	Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us."
John	14:9	Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, 'Show us the Father'?
John	14:10	Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works.
John	14:11	Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves.
John	14:12	"Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father.
John	14:13	Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
John	14:14	If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
John	14:15	"If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
John	14:16	And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,
John	14:17	even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.
John	14:18	"I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.
John	14:19	Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live.
John	14:20	In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
John	14:21	Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him."
John	14:22	Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?"
John	14:23	Jesus answered him, "If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
John	14:24	Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.
John	14:25	"These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you.
John	14:26	But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.
John	14:27	Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.
John	14:28	You heard me say to you, 'I am going away, and I will come to you.' If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.
John	14:29	And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.
John	14:30	I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me,
John	14:31	but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here.
John	15:1	"I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser.
John	15:2	Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
John	15:3	Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.
John	15:4	Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me.
John	15:5	I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
John	15:6	If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned.
John	15:7	If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.
John	15:8	By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.
John	15:9	As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love.
John	15:10	If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love.
John	15:11	These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full.
John	15:12	"This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.
John	15:13	Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends.
John	15:14	You are my friends if you do what I command you.
John	15:15	No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.
John	15:16	You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
John	15:17	These things I command you, so that you will love one another.
John	15:18	"If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you.
John	15:19	If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
John	15:20	Remember the word that I said to you: 'A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
John	15:21	But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me.
John	15:22	If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.
John	15:23	Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
John	15:24	If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin, but now they have seen and hated both me and my Father.
John	15:25	But the word that is written in their Law must be fulfilled: 'They hated me without a cause.'
John	15:26	"But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me.
John	15:27	And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.
John	16:1	"I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away.
John	16:2	They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.
John	16:3	And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me.
John	16:4	But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. "I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
John	16:5	But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?'
John	16:6	But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
John	16:7	Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you.
John	16:8	And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:
John	16:9	concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;
John	16:10	concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer;
John	16:11	concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
John	16:12	"I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
John	16:13	When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
John	16:14	He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
John	16:15	All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
John	16:16	"A little while, and you will see me no longer; and again a little while, and you will see me."
John	16:17	So some of his disciples said to one another, "What is this that he says to us, 'A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me'; and, 'because I am going to the Father'?"
John	16:18	So they were saying, "What does he mean by 'a little while'? We do not know what he is talking about."
John	16:19	Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, "Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, 'A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me'?
John	16:20	Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy.
John	16:21	When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world.
John	16:22	So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
John	16:23	In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you.
John	16:24	Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
John	16:25	"I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father.
John	16:26	In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
John	16:27	for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God.
John	16:28	I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father."
John	16:29	His disciples said, "Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech!
John	16:30	Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you; this is why we believe that you came from God."
John	16:31	Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?
John	16:32	Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
John	16:33	I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world."
John	17:1	When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, "Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you,
John	17:2	since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.
John	17:3	And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
John	17:4	I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do.
John	17:5	And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.
John	17:6	"I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
John	17:7	Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you.
John	17:8	For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me.
John	17:9	I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.
John	17:10	All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.
John	17:11	And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.
John	17:12	While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
John	17:13	But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
John	17:14	I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
John	17:15	I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one.
John	17:16	They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
John	17:17	Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.
John	17:18	As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
John	17:19	And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth.
John	17:20	"I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,
John	17:21	that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me.
John	17:22	The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one,
John	17:23	I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me.
John	17:24	Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.
John	17:25	O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me.
John	17:26	I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them."
John	18:1	When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.
John	18:2	Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples.
John	18:3	So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
John	18:4	Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, "Whom do you seek?"
John	18:5	They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am he." Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
John	18:6	When Jesus said to them, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground.
John	18:7	So he asked them again, "Whom do you seek?" And they said, "Jesus of Nazareth."
John	18:8	Jesus answered, "I told you that I am he. So, if you seek me, let these men go."
John	18:9	This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: "Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one."
John	18:10	Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.)
John	18:11	So Jesus said to Peter, "Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?"
John	18:12	So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him.
John	18:13	First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
John	18:14	It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people.
John	18:15	Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest,
John	18:16	but Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door, and brought Peter in.
John	18:17	The servant girl at the door said to Peter, "You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you?" He said, "I am not."
John	18:18	Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
John	18:19	The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching.
John	18:20	Jesus answered him, "I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret.
John	18:21	Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them; they know what I said."
John	18:22	When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, "Is that how you answer the high priest?"
John	18:23	Jesus answered him, "If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong; but if what I said is right, why do you strike me?"
John	18:24	Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
John	18:25	Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, "You also are not one of his disciples, are you?" He denied it and said, "I am not."
John	18:26	One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, "Did I not see you in the garden with him?"
John	18:27	Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed.
John	18:28	Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover.
John	18:29	So Pilate went outside to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?"
John	18:30	They answered him, "If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you."
John	18:31	Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law." The Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death."
John	18:32	This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
John	18:33	So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, "Are you the King of the Jews?"
John	18:34	Jesus answered, "Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?"
John	18:35	Pilate answered, "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done?"
John	18:36	Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world."
John	18:37	Then Pilate said to him, "So you are a king?" Jesus answered, "You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world--to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice."
John	18:38	Pilate said to him, "What is truth?"After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, "I find no guilt in him.
John	18:39	But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?"
John	18:40	They cried out again, "Not this man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas was a robber.
John	19:1	Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him.
John	19:2	And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe.
John	19:3	They came up to him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and struck him with their hands.
John	19:4	Pilate went out again and said to them, "See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him."
John	19:5	So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, "Behold the man!"
John	19:6	When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, "Crucify him, crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him."
John	19:7	The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God."
John	19:8	When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid.
John	19:9	He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.
John	19:10	So Pilate said to him, "You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you?"
John	19:11	Jesus answered him, "You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin."
John	19:12	From then on Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, "If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar."
John	19:13	So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Stone Pavement, and in Aramaic Gabbatha.
John	19:14	Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, "Behold your King!"
John	19:15	They cried out, "Away with him, away with him, crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered,.We have no king but Caesar."
John	19:16	So he delivered him over to them to be crucified.So they took Jesus,
John	19:17	and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha.
John	19:18	There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them.
John	19:19	Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews."
John	19:20	Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek.
John	19:21	So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,' but rather, 'This man said, I am King of the Jews.'"
John	19:22	Pilate answered, "What I have written I have written."
John	19:23	When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom,
John	19:24	so they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be." This was to fulfill the Scripture which says, "They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots."So the soldiers did these things,
John	19:25	but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
John	19:26	When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your son!"
John	19:27	Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home.
John	19:28	After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to fulfill the Scripture), "I thirst."
John	19:29	A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth.
John	19:30	When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, "It is finished," and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.
John	19:31	Since it was the day of Preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.
John	19:32	So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucified with him.
John	19:33	But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.
John	19:34	But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.
John	19:35	He who saw it has borne witness--his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth--that you also may believe.
John	19:36	For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled: "Not one of his bones will be broken."
John	19:37	And again another Scripture says, "They will look on him whom they have pierced."
John	19:38	After these things Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body.
John	19:39	Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds in weight.
John	19:40	So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews.
John	19:41	Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid.
John	19:42	So because of the Jewish day of Preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there.
John	20:1	Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
John	20:2	So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him."
John	20:3	So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb.
John	20:4	Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first.
John	20:5	And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.
John	20:6	Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there,
John	20:7	and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths but folded up in a place by itself.
John	20:8	Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed;
John	20:9	for as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
John	20:10	Then the disciples went back to their homes.
John	20:11	But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb.
John	20:12	And she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet.
John	20:13	They said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him."
John	20:14	Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
John	20:15	Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?" Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away."
John	20:16	Jesus said to her, "Mary." She turned and said to him in Aramaic, "Rabboni!" (which means Teacher).
John	20:17	Jesus said to her, "Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, 'I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.'"
John	20:18	Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord"--and that he had said these things to her.
John	20:19	On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you."
John	20:20	When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
John	20:21	Jesus said to them again, "Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you."
John	20:22	And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit.
John	20:23	If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven; if you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld."
John	20:24	Now Thomas, one of the Twelve, called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
John	20:25	So the other disciples told him, "We have seen the Lord." But he said to them, "Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe."
John	20:26	Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, "Peace be with you."
John	20:27	Then he said to Thomas, "Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe."
John	20:28	Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my God!"
John	20:29	Jesus said to him, "Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed."
John	20:30	Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;
John	20:31	but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.
John	21:1	After this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way.
John	21:2	Simon Peter, Thomas (called the Twin), Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together.
John	21:3	Simon Peter said to them, "I am going fishing." They said to him, "We will go with you." They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing.
John	21:4	Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore; yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
John	21:5	Jesus said to them, "Children, do you have any fish?" They answered him, "No."
John	21:6	He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some." So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish.
John	21:7	That disciple whom Jesus loved therefore said to Peter, "It is the Lord!" When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea.
John	21:8	The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off.
John	21:9	When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread.
John	21:10	Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish that you have just caught."
John	21:11	So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, 153 of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn.
John	21:12	Jesus said to them, "Come and have breakfast." Now none of the disciples dared ask him, "Who are you?" They knew it was the Lord.
John	21:13	Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish.
John	21:14	This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead.
John	21:15	When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?" He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you." He said to him, "Feed my lambs."
John	21:16	He said to him a second time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you." He said to him, "Tend my sheep."
John	21:17	He said to him the third time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, "Do you love me?" and he said to him, "Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you." Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep.
John	21:18	Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go."
John	21:19	(This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God.) And after saying this he said to him, "Follow me."
John	21:20	Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who had been reclining at table close to him and had said, "Lord, who is it that is going to betray you?"
John	21:21	When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this man?"
John	21:22	Jesus said to him, "If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!"
John	21:23	So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die; yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but, "If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?"
John	21:24	This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things, and who has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true.
John	21:25	Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written.
Acts	1:1	In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach,
Acts	1:2	until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen.
Acts	1:3	To them he presented himself alive after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God.
Acts	1:4	And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, "you heard from me;
Acts	1:5	for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now."
Acts	1:6	So when they had come together, they asked him, "Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?"
Acts	1:7	He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority.
Acts	1:8	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth."
Acts	1:9	And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight.
Acts	1:10	And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes,
Acts	1:11	and said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven."
Acts	1:12	Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.
Acts	1:13	And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were staying, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the son of James.
Acts	1:14	All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.
Acts	1:15	In those days Peter stood up among the brothers (the company of persons was in all about 120) and said,
Acts	1:16	"Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus.
Acts	1:17	For he was numbered among us and was allotted his share in this ministry."
Acts	1:18	(Now this man bought a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
Acts	1:19	And it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own language Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)
Acts	1:20	"For it is written in the Book of Psalms, "'May his camp become desolate, and let there be no one to dwell in it';and "'Let another take his office.'
Acts	1:21	So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
Acts	1:22	beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us--one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection."
Acts	1:23	And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias.
Acts	1:24	And they prayed and said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which one of these two you have chosen
Acts	1:25	to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place."
Acts	1:26	And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
Acts	2:1	When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place.
Acts	2:2	And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.
Acts	2:3	And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them.
Acts	2:4	And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Acts	2:5	Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.
Acts	2:6	And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language.
Acts	2:7	And they were amazed and astonished, saying, "Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
Acts	2:8	And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language?
Acts	2:9	Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Acts	2:10	Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,
Acts	2:11	both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians--we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God."
Acts	2:12	And all were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, "What does this mean?"
Acts	2:13	But others mocking said, "They are filled with new wine."
Acts	2:14	But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them, "Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
Acts	2:15	For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day.
Acts	2:16	But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel:
Acts	2:17	"'And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams;
Acts	2:18	even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy.
Acts	2:19	And I will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke;
Acts	2:20	the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day.
Acts	2:21	And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.'
Acts	2:22	"Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know--
Acts	2:23	this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men.
Acts	2:24	God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.
Acts	2:25	For David says concerning him, "'I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken;
Acts	2:26	therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; my flesh also will dwell in hope.
Acts	2:27	For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy One see corruption.
Acts	2:28	You have made known to me the paths of life; you will make me full of gladness with your presence.'
Acts	2:29	"Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
Acts	2:30	Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne,
Acts	2:31	he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.
Acts	2:32	This Jesus God raised up, and of that we all are witnesses.
Acts	2:33	Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.
Acts	2:34	For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, "'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Acts	2:35	until I make your enemies your footstool.'
Acts	2:36	Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified."
Acts	2:37	Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brothers, what shall we do?"
Acts	2:38	And Peter said to them, "Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Acts	2:39	For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself."
Acts	2:40	And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, "Save yourselves from this crooked generation."
Acts	2:41	So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
Acts	2:42	And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.
Acts	2:43	And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles.
Acts	2:44	And all who believed were together and had all things in common.
Acts	2:45	And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.
Acts	2:46	And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts,
Acts	2:47	praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.
Acts	3:1	Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
Acts	3:2	And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that is called the Beautiful Gate to ask alms of those entering the temple.
Acts	3:3	Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms.
Acts	3:4	And Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, "Look at us."
Acts	3:5	And he fixed his attention on them, expecting to receive something from them.
Acts	3:6	But Peter said, "I have no silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk!"
Acts	3:7	And he took him by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong.
Acts	3:8	And leaping up he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God.
Acts	3:9	And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
Acts	3:10	and recognized him as the one who sat at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, asking for alms. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
Acts	3:11	While he clung to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico called Solomon's, astounded.
Acts	3:12	And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: "Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk?
Acts	3:13	The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release him.
Acts	3:14	But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
Acts	3:15	and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses.
Acts	3:16	And his name--by faith in his name--has made this man strong whom you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all.
Acts	3:17	"And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
Acts	3:18	But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled.
Acts	3:19	Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out,
Acts	3:20	that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus,
Acts	3:21	whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago.
Acts	3:22	Moses said, 'The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you.
Acts	3:23	And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people.'
Acts	3:24	And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came after him, also proclaimed these days.
Acts	3:25	You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, 'And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.'
Acts	3:26	God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness."
Acts	4:1	And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,
Acts	4:2	greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
Acts	4:3	And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
Acts	4:4	But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand.
Acts	4:5	On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem,
Acts	4:6	with Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high-priestly family.
Acts	4:7	And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, "By what power or by what name did you do this?"
Acts	4:8	Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders,
Acts	4:9	if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed,
Acts	4:10	let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead--by him this man is standing before you well.
Acts	4:11	This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone.
Acts	4:12	And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved."
Acts	4:13	Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated, common men, they were astonished. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
Acts	4:14	But seeing the man who was healed standing beside them, they had nothing to say in opposition.
Acts	4:15	But when they had commanded them to leave the council, they conferred with one another,
Acts	4:16	saying, "What shall we do with these men? For that a notable sign has been performed through them is evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
Acts	4:17	But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to anyone in this name."
Acts	4:18	So they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
Acts	4:19	But Peter and John answered them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge,
Acts	4:20	for we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard."
Acts	4:21	And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, because of the people, for all were praising God for what had happened.
Acts	4:22	For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
Acts	4:23	When they were released, they went to their friends and reported what the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
Acts	4:24	And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to God and said, "Sovereign Lord, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them,
Acts	4:25	who through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said by the Holy Spirit, "'Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples plot in vain?
Acts	4:26	The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together, against the Lord and against his Anointed'--
Acts	4:27	for truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,
Acts	4:28	to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place.
Acts	4:29	And now, Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness,
Acts	4:30	while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus."
Acts	4:31	And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness.
Acts	4:32	Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common.
Acts	4:33	And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
Acts	4:34	There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold
Acts	4:35	and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need.
Acts	4:36	Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Acts	4:37	sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts	5:1	But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property,
Acts	5:2	and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts	5:3	But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land?
Acts	5:4	While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God."
Acts	5:5	When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came upon all who heard of it.
Acts	5:6	The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him.
Acts	5:7	After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.
Acts	5:8	And Peter said to her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much." And she said, "Yes, for so much."
Acts	5:9	But Peter said to her, "How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out."
Acts	5:10	Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
Acts	5:11	And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard of these things.
Acts	5:12	Now many signs and wonders were regularly done among the people by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon's Portico.
Acts	5:13	None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high esteem.
Acts	5:14	And more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
Acts	5:15	so that they even carried out the sick into the streets and laid them on cots and mats, that as Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them.
Acts	5:16	The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed.
Acts	5:17	But the high priest rose up, and all who were with him (that is, the party of the Sadducees), and filled with jealousy
Acts	5:18	they arrested the apostles and put them in the public prison.
Acts	5:19	But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out, and said,
Acts	5:20	"Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life."
Acts	5:21	And when they heard this, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach.Now when the high priest came, and those who were with him, they called together the council and all the senate of Israel and sent to the prison to have them brought.
Acts	5:22	But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported,
Acts	5:23	"We found the prison securely locked and the guards standing at the doors, but when we opened them we found no one inside."
Acts	5:24	Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to.
Acts	5:25	And someone came and told them, "Look! The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people."
Acts	5:26	Then the captain with the officers went and brought them, but not by force, for they were afraid of being stoned by the people.
Acts	5:27	And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest questioned them,
Acts	5:28	saying, "We strictly charged you not to teach in this name, yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood upon us."
Acts	5:29	But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men.
Acts	5:30	The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
Acts	5:31	God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
Acts	5:32	And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him."
Acts	5:33	When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them.
Acts	5:34	But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, stood up and gave orders to put the men outside for a little while.
Acts	5:35	And he said to them, "Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men.
Acts	5:36	For before these days Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing.
Acts	5:37	After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him. He too perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
Acts	5:38	So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or this undertaking is of man, it will fail;
Acts	5:39	but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God!" So they took his advice,
Acts	5:40	and when they had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Acts	5:41	Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name.
Acts	5:42	And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ.
Acts	6:1	Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution.
Acts	6:2	And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, "It is not right that we should give up preaching the word of God to serve tables.
Acts	6:3	Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty.
Acts	6:4	But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word."
Acts	6:5	And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch.
Acts	6:6	These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them.
Acts	6:7	And the word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith.
Acts	6:8	And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people.
Acts	6:9	Then some of those who belonged to the synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and disputed with Stephen.
Acts	6:10	But they could not withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.
Acts	6:11	Then they secretly instigated men who said, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God."
Acts	6:12	And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him and brought him before the council,
Acts	6:13	and they set up false witnesses who said, "This man never ceases to speak words against this holy place and the law,
Acts	6:14	for we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses delivered to us."
Acts	6:15	And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of an angel.
Acts	7:1	And the high priest said, "Are these things so?"
Acts	7:2	And Stephen said:"Brothers and fathers, hear me. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
Acts	7:3	and said to him, 'Go out from your land and from your kindred and go into the land that I will show you.'
Acts	7:4	Then he went out from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran. And after his father died, God removed him from there into this land in which you are now living.
Acts	7:5	Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length, but promised to give it to him as a possession and to his offspring after him, though he had no child.
Acts	7:6	And God spoke to this effect--that his offspring would be sojourners in a land belonging to others, who would enslave them and afflict them four hundred years.
Acts	7:7	'But I will judge the nation that they serve,' said God, 'and after that they shall come out and worship me in this place.'
Acts	7:8	And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day, and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.
Acts	7:9	"And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt; but God was with him
Acts	7:10	and rescued him out of all his afflictions and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household.
Acts	7:11	Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our fathers could find no food.
Acts	7:12	But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit.
Acts	7:13	And on the second visit Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh.
Acts	7:14	And Joseph sent and summoned Jacob his father and all his kindred, seventy-five persons in all.
Acts	7:15	And Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, he and our fathers,
Acts	7:16	and they were carried back to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
Acts	7:17	"But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt
Acts	7:18	until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph.
Acts	7:19	He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants, so that they would not be kept alive.
Acts	7:20	At this time Moses was born; and he was beautiful in God's sight. And he was brought up for three months in his father's house,
Acts	7:21	and when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son.
Acts	7:22	And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds.
Acts	7:23	"When he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
Acts	7:24	And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian.
Acts	7:25	He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand.
Acts	7:26	And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, 'Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other?'
Acts	7:27	But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge over us?
Acts	7:28	Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?'
Acts	7:29	At this retort Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons.
Acts	7:30	"Now when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush.
Acts	7:31	When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight, and as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord:
Acts	7:32	'I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.' And Moses trembled and did not dare to look.
Acts	7:33	Then the Lord said to him, 'Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.
Acts	7:34	I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt.'
Acts	7:35	"This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge?'--this man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
Acts	7:36	This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years.
Acts	7:37	This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, 'God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers.'
Acts	7:38	This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai, and with our fathers. He received living oracles to give to us.
Acts	7:39	Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt,
Acts	7:40	saying to Aaron, 'Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.'
Acts	7:41	And they made a calf in those days, and offered a sacrifice to the idol and were rejoicing in the works of their hands.
Acts	7:42	But God turned away and gave them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets: "'Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices, during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
Acts	7:43	You took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Rephan, the images that you made to worship; and I will send you into exile beyond Babylon.'
Acts	7:44	"Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it, according to the pattern that he had seen.
Acts	7:45	Our fathers in turn brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations that God drove out before our fathers. So it was until the days of David,
Acts	7:46	who found favor in the sight of God and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.
Acts	7:47	But it was Solomon who built a house for him.
Acts	7:48	Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says,
Acts	7:49	"'Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest?
Acts	7:50	Did not my hand make all these things?'
Acts	7:51	"You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you.
Acts	7:52	Which of the prophets did not your fathers persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, whom you have now betrayed and murdered,
Acts	7:53	you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it."
Acts	7:54	Now when they heard these things they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him.
Acts	7:55	But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God.
Acts	7:56	And he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God."
Acts	7:57	But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him.
Acts	7:58	Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul.
Acts	7:59	And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."
Acts	7:60	And falling to his knees he cried out with a loud voice, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
Acts	8:1	And Saul approved of his execution.And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Acts	8:2	Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him.
Acts	8:3	But Saul was ravaging the church, and entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison.
Acts	8:4	Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word.
Acts	8:5	Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ.
Acts	8:6	And the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip when they heard him and saw the signs that he did.
Acts	8:7	For unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, crying with a loud voice, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed.
Acts	8:8	So there was much joy in that city.
Acts	8:9	But there was a man named Simon, who had previously practiced magic in the city and amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great.
Acts	8:10	They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, "This man is the power of God that is called Great."
Acts	8:11	And they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic.
Acts	8:12	But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Acts	8:13	Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed.
Acts	8:14	Now when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John,
Acts	8:15	who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit,
Acts	8:16	for he had not yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts	8:17	Then they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit.
Acts	8:18	Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,
Acts	8:19	saying, "Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit."
Acts	8:20	But Peter said to him, "May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!
Acts	8:21	You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.
Acts	8:22	Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, the intent of your heart may be forgiven you.
Acts	8:23	For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity."
Acts	8:24	And Simon answered, "Pray for me to the Lord, that nothing of what you have said may come upon me."
Acts	8:25	Now when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
Acts	8:26	Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, "Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza." This is a desert place.
Acts	8:27	And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship
Acts	8:28	and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah.
Acts	8:29	And the Spirit said to Philip, "Go over and join this chariot."
Acts	8:30	So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, "Do you understand what you are reading?"
Acts	8:31	And he said, "How can I, unless someone guides me?" And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
Acts	8:32	Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this: "Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter and like a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth.
Acts	8:33	In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth."
Acts	8:34	And the eunuch said to Philip, "About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?"
Acts	8:35	Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus.
Acts	8:36	And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, "See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?"
Acts	8:37	See Footnote
Acts	8:38	And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
Acts	8:39	And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
Acts	8:40	But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he passed through he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to Caesarea.
Acts	9:1	But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
Acts	9:2	and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
Acts	9:3	Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.
Acts	9:4	And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"
Acts	9:5	And he said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
Acts	9:6	But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do."
Acts	9:7	The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.
Acts	9:8	Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
Acts	9:9	And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank.
Acts	9:10	Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias." And he said, "Here I am, Lord."
Acts	9:11	And the Lord said to him, "Rise and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying,
Acts	9:12	and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his sight."
Acts	9:13	But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to your saints at Jerusalem.
Acts	9:14	And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name."
Acts	9:15	But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel.
Acts	9:16	For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name."
Acts	9:17	So Ananias departed and entered the house. And laying his hands on him he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you came has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."
Acts	9:18	And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose and was baptized;
Acts	9:19	and taking food, he was strengthened.For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus.
Acts	9:20	And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, "He is the Son of God."
Acts	9:21	And all who heard him were amazed and said, "Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priests?"
Acts	9:22	But Saul increased all the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus was the Christ.
Acts	9:23	When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him,
Acts	9:24	but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him,
Acts	9:25	but his disciples took him by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket.
Acts	9:26	And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple.
Acts	9:27	But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord, who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
Acts	9:28	So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord.
Acts	9:29	And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists. But they were seeking to kill him.
Acts	9:30	And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.
Acts	9:31	So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied.
Acts	9:32	Now as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda.
Acts	9:33	There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed.
Acts	9:34	And Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed." And immediately he rose.
Acts	9:35	And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
Acts	9:36	Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, which, translated, means Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of charity.
Acts	9:37	In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
Acts	9:38	Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, "Please come to us without delay."
Acts	9:39	So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper room. All the widows stood beside him weeping and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them.
Acts	9:40	But Peter put them all outside, and knelt down and prayed; and turning to the body he said, "Tabitha, arise." And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up.
Acts	9:41	And he gave her his hand and raised her up. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive.
Acts	9:42	And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
Acts	9:43	And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner.
Acts	10:1	At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian Cohort,
Acts	10:2	a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God.
Acts	10:3	About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him, "Cornelius."
Acts	10:4	And he stared at him in terror and said, "What is it, Lord?" And he said to him, "Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God.
Acts	10:5	And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon who is called Peter.
Acts	10:6	He is lodging with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside."
Acts	10:7	When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who attended him,
Acts	10:8	and having related everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.
Acts	10:9	The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop about the sixth hour to pray.
Acts	10:10	And he became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while they were preparing it, he fell into a trance
Acts	10:11	and saw the heavens opened and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four corners upon the earth.
Acts	10:12	In it were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air.
Acts	10:13	And there came a voice to him: "Rise, Peter; kill and eat."
Acts	10:14	But Peter said, "By no means, Lord; for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean."
Acts	10:15	And the voice came to him again a second time, "What God has made clean, do not call common."
Acts	10:16	This happened three times, and the thing was taken up at once to heaven.
Acts	10:17	Now while Peter was inwardly perplexed as to what the vision that he had seen might mean, behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate
Acts	10:18	and called out to ask whether Simon who was called Peter was lodging there.
Acts	10:19	And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men are looking for you.
Acts	10:20	Rise and go down and accompany them without hesitation, for I have sent them."
Acts	10:21	And Peter went down to the men and said, "I am the one you are looking for. What is the reason for your coming?"
Acts	10:22	And they said, "Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man, who is well spoken of by the whole Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say."
Acts	10:23	So he invited them in to be his guests.The next day he rose and went away with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
Acts	10:24	And on the following day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them and had called together his relatives and close friends.
Acts	10:25	When Peter entered, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshiped him.
Acts	10:26	But Peter lifted him up, saying, "Stand up; I too am a man."
Acts	10:27	And as he talked with him, he went in and found many persons gathered.
Acts	10:28	And he said to them, "You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or to visit anyone of another nation, but God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean.
Acts	10:29	So when I was sent for, I came without objection. I ask then why you sent for me."
Acts	10:30	And Cornelius said, "Four days ago, about this hour, I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing
Acts	10:31	and said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.
Acts	10:32	Send therefore to Joppa and ask for Simon who is called Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea.'
Acts	10:33	So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord."
Acts	10:34	So Peter opened his mouth and said: "Truly I understand that God shows no partiality,
Acts	10:35	but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.
Acts	10:36	As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ (he is Lord of all),
Acts	10:37	you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed:
Acts	10:38	how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.
Acts	10:39	And we are witnesses of all that he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They put him to death by hanging him on a tree,
Acts	10:40	but God raised him on the third day and made him to appear,
Acts	10:41	not to all the people but to us who had been chosen by God as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
Acts	10:42	And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead.
Acts	10:43	To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name."
Acts	10:44	While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.
Acts	10:45	And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles.
Acts	10:46	For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared,
Acts	10:47	"Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?"
Acts	10:48	And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.
Acts	11:1	Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
Acts	11:2	So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party criticized him, saying,
Acts	11:3	"You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them."
Acts	11:4	But Peter began and explained it to them in order:
Acts	11:5	"I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheet descending, being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me.
Acts	11:6	Looking at it closely, I observed animals and beasts of prey and reptiles and birds of the air.
Acts	11:7	And I heard a voice saying to me, 'Rise, Peter; kill and eat.'
Acts	11:8	But I said, 'By no means, Lord; for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth.'
Acts	11:9	But the voice answered a second time from heaven, 'What God has made clean, do not call common.'
Acts	11:10	This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into heaven.
Acts	11:11	And behold, at that very moment three men arrived at the house in which we were, sent to me from Caesarea.
Acts	11:12	And the Spirit told me to go with them, making no distinction. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered the man's house.
Acts	11:13	And he told us how he had seen the angel stand in his house and say, 'Send to Joppa and bring Simon who is called Peter;
Acts	11:14	he will declare to you a message by which you will be saved, you and all your household.'
Acts	11:15	As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning.
Acts	11:16	And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, 'John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'
Acts	11:17	If then God gave the same gift to them as he gave to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could stand in God's way?"
Acts	11:18	When they heard these things they fell silent. And they glorified God, saying, "Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life."
Acts	11:19	Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews.
Acts	11:20	But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists also, preaching the Lord Jesus.
Acts	11:21	And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.
Acts	11:22	The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
Acts	11:23	When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose,
Acts	11:24	for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord.
Acts	11:25	So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul,
Acts	11:26	and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians.
Acts	11:27	Now in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
Acts	11:28	And one of them named Agabus stood up and foretold by the Spirit that there would be a great famine over all the world (this took place in the days of Claudius).
Acts	11:29	So the disciples determined, everyone according to his ability, to send relief to the brothers living in Judea.
Acts	11:30	And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Acts	12:1	About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church.
Acts	12:2	He killed James the brother of John with the sword,
Acts	12:3	and when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the days of Unleavened Bread.
Acts	12:4	And when he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.
Acts	12:5	So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church.
Acts	12:6	Now when Herod was about to bring him out, on that very night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries before the door were guarding the prison.
Acts	12:7	And behold, an angel of the Lord stood next to him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him, saying, "Get up quickly." And the chains fell off his hands.
Acts	12:8	And the angel said to him, "Dress yourself and put on your sandals." And he did so. And he said to him, "Wrap your cloak around you and follow me."
Acts	12:9	And he went out and followed him. He did not know that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he was seeing a vision.
Acts	12:10	When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate leading into the city. It opened for them of its own accord, and they went out and went along one street, and immediately the angel left him.
Acts	12:11	When Peter came to himself, he said, "Now I am sure that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting."
Acts	12:12	When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose other name was Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying.
Acts	12:13	And when he knocked at the door of the gateway, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer.
Acts	12:14	Recognizing Peter's voice, in her joy she did not open the gate but ran in and reported that Peter was standing at the gate.
Acts	12:15	They said to her, "You are out of your mind." But she kept insisting that it was so, and they kept saying, "It is his angel!"
Acts	12:16	But Peter continued knocking, and when they opened, they saw him and were amazed.
Acts	12:17	But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he described to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, "Tell these things to James and to the brothers." Then he departed and went to another place.
Acts	12:18	Now when day came, there was no little disturbance among the soldiers over what had become of Peter.
Acts	12:19	And after Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the sentries and ordered that they should be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and spent time there.
Acts	12:20	Now Herod was angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon, and they came to him with one accord, and having persuaded Blastus, the king's chamberlain, they asked for peace, because their country depended on the king's country for food.
Acts	12:21	On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon the throne, and delivered an oration to them.
Acts	12:22	And the people were shouting, "The voice of a god, and not of a man!"
Acts	12:23	Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him down, because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and breathed his last.
Acts	12:24	But the word of God increased and multiplied.
Acts	12:25	And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had completed their service, bringing with them John, whose other name was Mark.
Acts	13:1	Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Acts	13:2	While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."
Acts	13:3	Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.
Acts	13:4	So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus.
Acts	13:5	When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John to assist them.
Acts	13:6	When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet named Bar-Jesus.
Acts	13:7	He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God.
Acts	13:8	But Elymas the magician (for that is the meaning of his name) opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.
Acts	13:9	But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
Acts	13:10	and said, "You son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy, will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord?
Acts	13:11	And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and unable to see the sun for a time." Immediately mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking people to lead him by the hand.
Acts	13:12	Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had occurred, for he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord.
Acts	13:13	Now Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John left them and returned to Jerusalem,
Acts	13:14	but they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down.
Acts	13:15	After the reading from the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a message to them, saying, "Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it."
Acts	13:16	So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said:"Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen.
Acts	13:17	The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt, and with uplifted arm he led them out of it.
Acts	13:18	And for about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.
Acts	13:19	And after destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as an inheritance.
Acts	13:20	All this took about 450 years. And after that he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
Acts	13:21	Then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
Acts	13:22	And when he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified and said, 'I have found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my will.'
Acts	13:23	Of this man's offspring God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised.
Acts	13:24	Before his coming, John had proclaimed a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Acts	13:25	And as John was finishing his course, he said, 'What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but behold, after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.'
Acts	13:26	"Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us has been sent the message of this salvation.
Acts	13:27	For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him nor understand the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.
Acts	13:28	And though they found in him no guilt worthy of death, they asked Pilate to have him executed.
Acts	13:29	And when they had carried out all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb.
Acts	13:30	But God raised him from the dead,
Acts	13:31	and for many days he appeared to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.
Acts	13:32	And we bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers,
Acts	13:33	this he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus, as also it is written in the second Psalm, "'You are my Son, today I have begotten you.'
Acts	13:34	And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in this way, "'I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.'
Acts	13:35	Therefore he says also in another psalm, "'You will not let your Holy One see corruption.'
Acts	13:36	For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption,
Acts	13:37	but he whom God raised up did not see corruption.
Acts	13:38	Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything
Acts	13:39	from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.
Acts	13:40	Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the Prophets should come about:
Acts	13:41	"'Look, you scoffers, be astounded and perish; for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe, even if one tells it to you.'"
Acts	13:42	As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath.
Acts	13:43	And after the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas, who, as they spoke with them, urged them to continue in the grace of God.
Acts	13:44	The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
Acts	13:45	But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him.
Acts	13:46	And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, "It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles.
Acts	13:47	For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, "'I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.'"
Acts	13:48	And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
Acts	13:49	And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.
Acts	13:50	But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district.
Acts	13:51	But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium.
Acts	13:52	And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
Acts	14:1	Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed.
Acts	14:2	But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers.
Acts	14:3	So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
Acts	14:4	But the people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews and some with the apostles.
Acts	14:5	When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to mistreat them and to stone them,
Acts	14:6	they learned of it and fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding country,
Acts	14:7	and there they continued to preach the gospel.
Acts	14:8	Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet. He was crippled from birth and had never walked.
Acts	14:9	He listened to Paul speaking. And Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well,
Acts	14:10	said in a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." And he sprang up and began walking.
Acts	14:11	And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, "The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!"
Acts	14:12	Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker.
Acts	14:13	And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was at the entrance to the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.
Acts	14:14	But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out,
Acts	14:15	"Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men, of like nature with you, and we bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain things to a living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them.
Acts	14:16	In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways.
Acts	14:17	Yet he did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness."
Acts	14:18	Even with these words they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them.
Acts	14:19	But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
Acts	14:20	But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city, and on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derbe.
Acts	14:21	When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
Acts	14:22	strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.
Acts	14:23	And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
Acts	14:24	Then they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
Acts	14:25	And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia,
Acts	14:26	and from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled.
Acts	14:27	And when they arrived and gathered the church together, they declared all that God had done with them, and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
Acts	14:28	And they remained no little time with the disciples.
Acts	15:1	But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."
Acts	15:2	And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question.
Acts	15:3	So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers.
Acts	15:4	When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared all that God had done with them.
Acts	15:5	But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, "It is necessary to circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses."
Acts	15:6	The apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter.
Acts	15:7	And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, "Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
Acts	15:8	And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us,
Acts	15:9	and he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
Acts	15:10	Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
Acts	15:11	But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will."
Acts	15:12	And all the assembly fell silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
Acts	15:13	After they finished speaking, James replied, "Brothers, listen to me.
Acts	15:14	Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles, to take from them a people for his name.
Acts	15:15	And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written,
Acts	15:16	"'After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it,
Acts	15:17	that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things
Acts	15:18	known from of old.'
Acts	15:19	Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God,
Acts	15:20	but should write to them to abstain from the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled, and from blood.
Acts	15:21	For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues."
Acts	15:22	Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers,
Acts	15:23	with the following letter: "The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings.
Acts	15:24	Since we have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words, unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions,
Acts	15:25	it has seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Acts	15:26	men who have risked their lives for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts	15:27	We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth.
Acts	15:28	For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements:
Acts	15:29	that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell."
Acts	15:30	So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter.
Acts	15:31	And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement.
Acts	15:32	And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words.
Acts	15:33	And after they had spent some time, they were sent off in peace by the brothers to those who had sent them.
Acts	15:34	See Footnote
Acts	15:35	But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
Acts	15:36	And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return and visit the brothers in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are."
Acts	15:37	Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark.
Acts	15:38	But Paul thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work.
Acts	15:39	And there arose a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus,
Acts	15:40	but Paul chose Silas and departed, having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
Acts	15:41	And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
Acts	16:1	Paul came also to Derbe and to Lystra. A disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
Acts	16:2	He was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium.
Acts	16:3	Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
Acts	16:4	As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
Acts	16:5	So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and they increased in numbers daily.
Acts	16:6	And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
Acts	16:7	And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
Acts	16:8	So, passing by Mysia, they went down to Troas.
Acts	16:9	And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, "Come over to Macedonia and help us."
Acts	16:10	And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Acts	16:11	So, setting sail from Troas, we made a direct voyage to Samothrace, and the following day to Neapolis,
Acts	16:12	and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of the district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. We remained in this city some days.
Acts	16:13	And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
Acts	16:14	One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.
Acts	16:15	And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay." And she prevailed upon us.
Acts	16:16	As we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination and brought her owners much gain by fortune-telling.
Acts	16:17	She followed Paul and us, crying out, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation."
Acts	16:18	And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it came out that very hour.
Acts	16:19	But when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers.
Acts	16:20	And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, "These men are Jews, and they are disturbing our city.
Acts	16:21	They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice."
Acts	16:22	The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods.
Acts	16:23	And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely.
Acts	16:24	Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.
Acts	16:25	About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them,
Acts	16:26	and suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bonds were unfastened.
Acts	16:27	When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
Acts	16:28	But Paul cried with a loud voice, "Do not harm yourself, for we are all here."
Acts	16:29	And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas.
Acts	16:30	Then he brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
Acts	16:31	And they said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household."
Acts	16:32	And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
Acts	16:33	And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all his family.
Acts	16:34	Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God.
Acts	16:35	But when it was day, the magistrates sent the police, saying, "Let those men go."
Acts	16:36	And the jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent to let you go. Therefore come out now and go in peace."
Acts	16:37	But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Roman citizens, and have thrown us into prison; and do they now throw us out secretly? No! Let them come themselves and take us out."
Acts	16:38	The police reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Roman citizens.
Acts	16:39	So they came and apologized to them. And they took them out and asked them to leave the city.
Acts	16:40	So they went out of the prison and visited Lydia. And when they had seen the brothers, they encouraged them and departed.
Acts	17:1	Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
Acts	17:2	And Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
Acts	17:3	explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ."
Acts	17:4	And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks and not a few of the leading women.
Acts	17:5	But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd.
Acts	17:6	And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also,
Acts	17:7	and Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus."
Acts	17:8	And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things.
Acts	17:9	And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
Acts	17:10	The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived they went into the Jewish synagogue.
Acts	17:11	Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica; they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.
Acts	17:12	Many of them therefore believed, with not a few Greek women of high standing as well as men.
Acts	17:13	But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Berea also, they came there too, agitating and stirring up the crowds.
Acts	17:14	Then the brothers immediately sent Paul off on his way to the sea, but Silas and Timothy remained there.
Acts	17:15	Those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
Acts	17:16	Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols.
Acts	17:17	So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.
Acts	17:18	Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. And some said, "What does this babbler wish to say?" Others said, "He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities"--because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
Acts	17:19	And they took hold of him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting?
Acts	17:20	For you bring some strange things to our ears. We wish to know therefore what these things mean."
Acts	17:21	Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there would spend their time in nothing except telling or hearing something new.
Acts	17:22	So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: "Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way you are very religious.
Acts	17:23	For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription, 'To the unknown god.' What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.
Acts	17:24	The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man,
Acts	17:25	nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything.
Acts	17:26	And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,
Acts	17:27	that they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us,
Acts	17:28	for "'In him we live and move and have our being'; as even some of your own poets have said, "'For we are indeed his offspring.'
Acts	17:29	Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man.
Acts	17:30	The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,
Acts	17:31	because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead."
Acts	17:32	Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. But others said, "We will hear you again about this."
Acts	17:33	So Paul went out from their midst.
Acts	17:34	But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
Acts	18:1	After this Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
Acts	18:2	And he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to see them,
Acts	18:3	and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by trade.
Acts	18:4	And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.
Acts	18:5	When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus.
Acts	18:6	And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his garments and said to them, "Your blood be on your own heads! I am innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
Acts	18:7	And he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God. His house was next door to the synagogue.
Acts	18:8	Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.
Acts	18:9	And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, "Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent,
Acts	18:10	for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people."
Acts	18:11	And he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Acts	18:12	But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews made a united attack on Paul and brought him before the tribunal,
Acts	18:13	saying, "This man is persuading people to worship God contrary to the law."
Acts	18:14	But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it were a matter of wrongdoing or vicious crime, O Jews, I would have reason to accept your complaint.
Acts	18:15	But since it is a matter of questions about words and names and your own law, see to it yourselves. I refuse to be a judge of these things."
Acts	18:16	And he drove them from the tribunal.
Acts	18:17	And they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the tribunal. But Gallio paid no attention to any of this.
Acts	18:18	After this, Paul stayed many days longer and then took leave of the brothers and set sail for Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila. At Cenchreae he had cut his hair, for he was under a vow.
Acts	18:19	And they came to Ephesus, and he left them there, but he himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.
Acts	18:20	When they asked him to stay for a longer period, he declined.
Acts	18:21	But on taking leave of them he said, "I will return to you if God wills," and he set sail from Ephesus.
Acts	18:22	When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and then went down to Antioch.
Acts	18:23	After spending some time there, he departed and went from one place to the next through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
Acts	18:24	Now a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, competent in the Scriptures.
Acts	18:25	He had been instructed in the way of the Lord. And being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.
Acts	18:26	He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
Acts	18:27	And when he wished to cross to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him. When he arrived, he greatly helped those who through grace had believed,
Acts	18:28	for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.
Acts	19:1	And it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples.
Acts	19:2	And he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" And they said, "No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit."
Acts	19:3	And he said, "Into what then were you baptized?" They said, "Into John's baptism."
Acts	19:4	And Paul said, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus."
Acts	19:5	On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts	19:6	And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.
Acts	19:7	There were about twelve men in all.
Acts	19:8	And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke boldly, reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
Acts	19:9	But when some became stubborn and continued in unbelief, speaking evil of the Way before the congregation, he withdrew from them and took the disciples with him, reasoning daily in the hall of Tyrannus.
Acts	19:10	This continued for two years, so that all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
Acts	19:11	And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
Acts	19:12	so that even handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his skin were carried away to the sick, and their diseases left them and the evil spirits came out of them.
Acts	19:13	Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, "I adjure you by the Jesus, whom Paul proclaims."
Acts	19:14	Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva were doing this.
Acts	19:15	But the evil spirit answered them, "Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?"
Acts	19:16	And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, mastered all of them and overpowered them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
Acts	19:17	And this became known to all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. And fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled.
Acts	19:18	Also many of those who were now believers came, confessing and divulging their practices.
Acts	19:19	And a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Acts	19:20	So the word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily.
Acts	19:21	Now after these events Paul resolved in the Spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go to Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome."
Acts	19:22	And having sent into Macedonia two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a while.
Acts	19:23	About that time there arose no little disturbance concerning the Way.
Acts	19:24	For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen.
Acts	19:25	These he gathered together, with the workmen in similar trades, and said, "Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth.
Acts	19:26	And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great many people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods.
Acts	19:27	And there is danger not only that this trade of ours may come into disrepute but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing, and that she may even be deposed from her magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship."
Acts	19:28	When they heard this they were enraged and were crying out, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Acts	19:29	So the city was filled with the confusion, and they rushed together into the theater, dragging with them Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians who were Paul's companions in travel.
Acts	19:30	But when Paul wished to go in among the crowd, the disciples would not let him.
Acts	19:31	And even some of the Asiarchs, who were friends of his, sent to him and were urging him not to venture into the theater.
Acts	19:32	Now some cried out one thing, some another, for the assembly was in confusion, and most of them did not know why they had come together.
Acts	19:33	Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, whom the Jews had put forward. And Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the crowd.
Acts	19:34	But when they recognized that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all cried out with one voice, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Acts	19:35	And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, "Men of Ephesus, who is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple keeper of the great Artemis, and of the sacred stone that fell from the sky?
Acts	19:36	Seeing then that these things cannot be denied, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.
Acts	19:37	For you have brought these men here who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers of our goddess.
Acts	19:38	If therefore Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another.
Acts	19:39	But if you seek anything further, it shall be settled in the regular assembly.
Acts	19:40	For we really are in danger of being charged with rioting today, since there is no cause that we can give to justify this commotion."
Acts	19:41	And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
Acts	20:1	After the uproar ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and after encouraging them, he said farewell and departed for Macedonia.
Acts	20:2	When he had gone through those regions and had given them much encouragement, he came to Greece.
Acts	20:3	There he spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia.
Acts	20:4	Sopater of Berea, the son of Pyrrhus from Berea, accompanied him; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus.
Acts	20:5	These went on ahead and were waiting for us at Troas,
Acts	20:6	but we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we came to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days.
Acts	20:7	On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.
Acts	20:8	There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered.
Acts	20:9	And a young man named Eutychus, sitting at the window, sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked still longer. And being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
Acts	20:10	But Paul went down and bent over him, and taking him in his arms, said, "Do not be alarmed, for his life is in him."
Acts	20:11	And when Paul had gone up and had broken bread and eaten, he conversed with them a long while, until daybreak, and so departed.
Acts	20:12	And they took the youth away alive, and were not a little comforted.
Acts	20:13	But going ahead to the ship, we set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul aboard there, for so he had arranged, intending himself to go by land.
Acts	20:14	And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene.
Acts	20:15	And sailing from there we came the following day opposite Chios; the next day we touched at Samos; and the day after that we went to Miletus.
Acts	20:16	For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost.
Acts	20:17	Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him.
Acts	20:18	And when they came to him, he said to them:"You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day that I set foot in Asia,
Acts	20:19	serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews;
Acts	20:20	how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house,
Acts	20:21	testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts	20:22	And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, constrained by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there,
Acts	20:23	except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me.
Acts	20:24	But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
Acts	20:25	And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again.
Acts	20:26	Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you,
Acts	20:27	for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.
Acts	20:28	Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.
Acts	20:29	I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;
Acts	20:30	and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples after them.
Acts	20:31	Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish everyone with tears.
Acts	20:32	And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
Acts	20:33	I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.
Acts	20:34	You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who were with me.
Acts	20:35	In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
Acts	20:36	And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
Acts	20:37	And there was much weeping on the part of all; they embraced Paul and kissed him,
Acts	20:38	being sorrowful most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship.
Acts	21:1	And when we had parted from them and set sail, we came by a straight course to Cos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
Acts	21:2	And having found a ship crossing to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail.
Acts	21:3	When we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left we sailed to Syria and landed at Tyre, for there the ship was to unload its cargo.
Acts	21:4	And having sought out the disciples, we stayed there for seven days. And through the Spirit they were telling Paul not to go on to Jerusalem.
Acts	21:5	When our days there were ended, we departed and went on our journey, and they all, with wives and children, accompanied us until we were outside the city. And kneeling down on the beach, we prayed
Acts	21:6	and said farewell to one another. Then we went on board the ship, and they returned home.
Acts	21:7	When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, and we greeted the brothers and stayed with them for one day.
Acts	21:8	On the next day we departed and came to Caesarea, and we entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.
Acts	21:9	He had four unmarried daughters, who prophesied.
Acts	21:10	While we were staying for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
Acts	21:11	And coming to us, he took Paul's belt and bound his own feet and hands and said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit, 'This is how the Jews at Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.'"
Acts	21:12	When we heard this, we and the people there urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Acts	21:13	Then Paul answered, "What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be imprisoned but even to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus."
Acts	21:14	And since he would not be persuaded, we ceased and said, "Let the will of the Lord be done."
Acts	21:15	After these days we got ready and went up to Jerusalem.
Acts	21:16	And some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing us to the house of Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we should lodge.
Acts	21:17	When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.
Acts	21:18	On the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
Acts	21:19	After greeting them, he related one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
Acts	21:20	And when they heard it, they glorified God. And they said to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed. They are all zealous for the law,
Acts	21:21	and they have been told about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to our customs.
Acts	21:22	What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.
Acts	21:23	Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who are under a vow;
Acts	21:24	take these men and purify yourself along with them and pay their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you yourself also live in observance of the law.
Acts	21:25	But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have sent a letter with our judgment that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality."
Acts	21:26	Then Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself along with them and went into the temple, giving notice when the days of purification would be fulfilled and the offering presented for each one of them.
Acts	21:27	When the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him,
Acts	21:28	crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching everyone everywhere against the people and the law and this place. Moreover, he even brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place."
Acts	21:29	For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.
Acts	21:30	Then all the city was stirred up, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and at once the gates were shut.
Acts	21:31	And as they were seeking to kill him, word came to the tribune of the cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion.
Acts	21:32	He at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. And when they saw the tribune and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Acts	21:33	Then the tribune came up and arrested him and ordered him to be bound with two chains. He inquired who he was and what he had done.
Acts	21:34	Some in the crowd were shouting one thing, some another. And as he could not learn the facts because of the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks.
Acts	21:35	And when he came to the steps, he was actually carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd,
Acts	21:36	for the mob of the people followed, crying out, "Away with him!"
Acts	21:37	As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the tribune, "May I say something to you?" And he said, "Do you know Greek?
Acts	21:38	Are you not the Egyptian, then, who recently stirred up a revolt and led the four thousand men of the Assassins out into the wilderness?"
Acts	21:39	Paul replied, "I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no obscure city. I beg you, permit me to speak to the people."
Acts	21:40	And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the steps, motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great hush, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying:
Acts	22:1	"Brothers and fathers, hear the defense that I now make before you."
Acts	22:2	And when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they became even more quiet. And he said:
Acts	22:3	"I am a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated at the feet of Gamaliel according to the strict manner of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God as all of you are this day.
Acts	22:4	I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering to prison both men and women,
Acts	22:5	as the high priest and the whole council of elders can bear me witness. From them I received letters to the brothers, and I journeyed toward Damascus to take those also who were there and bring them in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished.
Acts	22:6	"As I was on my way and drew near to Damascus, about noon a great light from heaven suddenly shone around me.
Acts	22:7	And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?'
Acts	22:8	And I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?' And he said to me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.'
Acts	22:9	Now those who were with me saw the light but did not understand the voice of the one who was speaking to me.
Acts	22:10	And I said, 'What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said to me, 'Rise, and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all that is appointed for you to do.'
Acts	22:11	And since I could not see because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me, and came into Damascus.
Acts	22:12	"And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there,
Acts	22:13	came to me, and standing by me said to me, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight.' And at that very hour I received my sight and saw him.
Acts	22:14	And he said, 'The God of our fathers appointed you to know his will, to see the Righteous One and to hear a voice from his mouth;
Acts	22:15	for you will be a witness for him to everyone of what you have seen and heard.
Acts	22:16	And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.'
Acts	22:17	"When I had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance
Acts	22:18	and saw him saying to me, 'Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me.'
Acts	22:19	And I said, 'Lord, they themselves know that in one synagogue after another I imprisoned and beat those who believed in you.
Acts	22:20	And when the blood of Stephen your witness was being shed, I myself was standing by and approving and watching over the garments of those who killed him.'
Acts	22:21	And he said to me, 'Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.'"
Acts	22:22	Up to this word they listened to him. Then they raised their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow from the earth! For he should not be allowed to live."
Acts	22:23	And as they were shouting and throwing off their cloaks and flinging dust into the air,
Acts	22:24	the tribune ordered him to be brought into the barracks, saying that he should be examined by flogging, to find out why they were shouting against him like this.
Acts	22:25	But when they had stretched him out for the whips, Paul said to the centurion who was standing by, "Is it lawful for you to flog a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?"
Acts	22:26	When the centurion heard this, he went to the tribune and said to him, "What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen."
Acts	22:27	So the tribune came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?" And he said, "Yes."
Acts	22:28	The tribune answered, "I bought this citizenship for a large sum." Paul said, "But I am a citizen by birth."
Acts	22:29	So those who were about to examine him withdrew from him immediately, and the tribune also was afraid, for he realized that Paul was a Roman citizen and that he had bound him.
Acts	22:30	But on the next day, desiring to know the real reason why he was being accused by the Jews, he unbound him and commanded the chief priests and all the council to meet, and he brought Paul down and set him before them.
Acts	23:1	And looking intently at the council, Paul said, "Brothers, I have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day."
Acts	23:2	And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
Acts	23:3	Then Paul said to him, "God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall! Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, and yet contrary to the law you order me to be struck?"
Acts	23:4	Those who stood by said, "Would you revile God's high priest?"
Acts	23:5	And Paul said, "I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest, for it is written, 'You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people.'"
Acts	23:6	Now when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, "Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. It is with respect to the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial."
Acts	23:7	And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Acts	23:8	For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees acknowledge them all.
Acts	23:9	Then a great clamor arose, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party stood up and contended sharply, "We find nothing wrong in this man. What if a spirit or an angel spoke to him?"
Acts	23:10	And when the dissension became violent, the tribune, afraid that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him away from among them by force and bring him into the barracks.
Acts	23:11	The following night the Lord stood by him and said, "Take courage, for as you have testified to the facts about me in Jerusalem, so you must testify also in Rome."
Acts	23:12	When it was day, the Jews made a plot and bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.
Acts	23:13	There were more than forty who made this conspiracy.
Acts	23:14	They went to the chief priests and elders and said, "We have strictly bound ourselves by an oath to taste no food till we have killed Paul.
Acts	23:15	Now therefore you, along with the council, give notice to the tribune to bring him down to you, as though you were going to determine his case more exactly. And we are ready to kill him before he comes near."
Acts	23:16	Now the son of Paul's sister heard of their ambush, so he went and entered the barracks and told Paul.
Acts	23:17	Paul called one of the centurions and said, "Take this young man to the tribune, for he has something to tell him."
Acts	23:18	So he took him and brought him to the tribune and said, "Paul the prisoner called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, as he has something to say to you."
Acts	23:19	The tribune took him by the hand, and going aside asked him privately, "What is it that you have to tell me?"
Acts	23:20	And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though they were going to inquire somewhat more closely about him.
Acts	23:21	But do not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him, who have bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they have killed him. And now they are ready, waiting for your consent."
Acts	23:22	So the tribune dismissed the young man, charging him, "Tell no one that you have informed me of these things."
Acts	23:23	Then he called two of the centurions and said, "Get ready two hundred soldiers, with seventy horsemen and two hundred spearmen to go as far as Caesarea at the third hour of the night.
Acts	23:24	Also provide mounts for Paul to ride and bring him safely to Felix the governor."
Acts	23:25	And he wrote a letter to this effect:
Acts	23:26	"Claudius Lysias, to his Excellency the governor Felix, greetings.
Acts	23:27	This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them when I came upon them with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman citizen.
Acts	23:28	And desiring to know the charge for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their council.
Acts	23:29	I found that he was being accused about questions of their law, but charged with nothing deserving death or imprisonment.
Acts	23:30	And when it was disclosed to me that there would be a plot against the man, I sent him to you at once, ordering his accusers also to state before you what they have against him."
Acts	23:31	So the soldiers, according to their instructions, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Acts	23:32	And on the next day they returned to the barracks, letting the horsemen go on with him.
Acts	23:33	When they had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also before him.
Acts	23:34	On reading the letter, he asked what province he was from. And when he learned that he was from Cilicia,
Acts	23:35	he said, "I will give you a hearing when your accusers arrive." And he commanded him to be guarded in Herod's praetorium.
Acts	24:1	And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a spokesman, one Tertullus. They laid before the governor their case against Paul.
Acts	24:2	And when he had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying:"Since through you we enjoy much peace, and since by your foresight, most excellent Felix, reforms are being made for this nation,
Acts	24:3	in every way and everywhere we accept this with all gratitude.
Acts	24:4	But, to detain you no further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly.
Acts	24:5	For we have found this man a plague, one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world and is a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
Acts	24:6	He even tried to profane the temple, but we seized him.
Acts	24:7	See Footnote
Acts	24:8	By examining him yourself you will be able to find out from him about everything of which we accuse him."
Acts	24:9	The Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that all these things were so.
Acts	24:10	And when the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul replied:"Knowing that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense.
Acts	24:11	You can verify that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem,
Acts	24:12	and they did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the temple or in the synagogues or in the city.
Acts	24:13	Neither can they prove to you what they now bring up against me.
Acts	24:14	But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets,
Acts	24:15	having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust.
Acts	24:16	So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both God and man.
Acts	24:17	Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings.
Acts	24:18	While I was doing this, they found me purified in the temple, without any crowd or tumult. But some Jews from Asia--
Acts	24:19	they ought to be here before you and to make an accusation, should they have anything against me.
Acts	24:20	Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council,
Acts	24:21	other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: 'It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day.'"
Acts	24:22	But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put them off, saying, "When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your case."
Acts	24:23	Then he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody but have some liberty, and that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs.
Acts	24:24	After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
Acts	24:25	And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, "Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity I will summon you."
Acts	24:26	At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul. So he sent for him often and conversed with him.
Acts	24:27	When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. And desiring to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison.
Acts	25:1	Now three days after Festus had arrived in the province, he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
Acts	25:2	And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews laid out their case against Paul, and they urged him,
Acts	25:3	asking as a favor against Paul that he summon him to Jerusalem--because they were planning an ambush to kill him on the way.
Acts	25:4	Festus replied that Paul was being kept at Caesarea and that he himself intended to go there shortly.
Acts	25:5	"So," said he, "let the men of authority among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them bring charges against him."
Acts	25:6	After he stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the next day he took his seat on the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought.
Acts	25:7	When he had arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many and serious charges against him that they could not prove.
Acts	25:8	Paul argued in his defense, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar have I committed any offense."
Acts	25:9	But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, "Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem and there be tried on these charges before me?"
Acts	25:10	But Paul said, "I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as you yourselves know very well.
Acts	25:11	If then I am a wrongdoer and have committed anything for which I deserve to die, I do not seek to escape death. But if there is nothing to their charges against me, no one can give me up to them. I appeal to Caesar."
Acts	25:12	Then Festus, when he had conferred with his council, answered, "To Caesar you have appealed; to Caesar you shall go."
Acts	25:13	Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus.
Acts	25:14	And as they stayed there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, "There is a man left prisoner by Felix,
Acts	25:15	and when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews laid out their case against him, asking for a sentence of condemnation against him.
Acts	25:16	I answered them that it was not the custom of the Romans to give up anyone before the accused met the accusers face to face and had opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge laid against him.
Acts	25:17	So when they came together here, I made no delay, but on the next day took my seat on the tribunal and ordered the man to be brought.
Acts	25:18	When the accusers stood up, they brought no charge in his case of such evils as I supposed.
Acts	25:19	Rather they had certain points of dispute with him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus, who was dead, but whom Paul asserted to be alive.
Acts	25:20	Being at a loss how to investigate these questions, I asked whether he wanted to go to Jerusalem and be tried there regarding them.
Acts	25:21	But when Paul had appealed to be kept in custody for the decision of the emperor, I ordered him to be held until I could send him to Caesar."
Acts	25:22	Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I would like to hear the man myself.Tomorrow," said he, "you will hear him."
Acts	25:23	So on the next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp, and they entered the audience hall with the military tribunes and the prominent men of the city. Then, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.
Acts	25:24	And Festus said, "King Agrippa and all who are present with us, you see this man about whom the whole Jewish people petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
Acts	25:25	But I found that he had done nothing deserving death. And as he himself appealed to the emperor, I decided to go ahead and send him.
Acts	25:26	But I have nothing definite to write to my lord about him. Therefore I have brought him before you all, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that, after we have examined him, I may have something to write.
Acts	25:27	For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to indicate the charges against him."
Acts	26:1	So Agrippa said to Paul, "You have permission to speak for yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:
Acts	26:2	"I consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am going to make my defense today against all the accusations of the Jews,
Acts	26:3	especially because you are familiar with all the customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
Acts	26:4	"My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning among my own nation and in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews.
Acts	26:5	They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest party of our religion I have lived as a Pharisee.
Acts	26:6	And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers,
Acts	26:7	to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O king!
Acts	26:8	Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead?
Acts	26:9	"I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
Acts	26:10	And I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priests, but when they were put to death I cast my vote against them.
Acts	26:11	And I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme, and in raging fury against them I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
Acts	26:12	"In this connection I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests.
Acts	26:13	At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, that shone around me and those who journeyed with me.
Acts	26:14	And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.'
Acts	26:15	And I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' And the Lord said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
Acts	26:16	But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you,
Acts	26:17	delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles--to whom I am sending you
Acts	26:18	to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.'
Acts	26:19	"Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
Acts	26:20	but declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance.
Acts	26:21	For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me.
Acts	26:22	To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:
Acts	26:23	that the Christ must suffer and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles."
Acts	26:24	And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are out of your mind; your great learning is driving you out of your mind."
Acts	26:25	But Paul said, "I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational words.
Acts	26:26	For the king knows about these things, and to him I speak boldly. For I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this has not been done in a corner.
Acts	26:27	King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."
Acts	26:28	And Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian?"
Acts	26:29	And Paul said, "Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am--except for these chains."
Acts	26:30	Then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice and those who were sitting with them.
Acts	26:31	And when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, "This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment."
Acts	26:32	And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."
Acts	27:1	And when it was decided that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan Cohort named Julius.
Acts	27:2	And embarking in a ship of Adramyttium, which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia, we put to sea, accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
Acts	27:3	The next day we put in at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him leave to go to his friends and be cared for.
Acts	27:4	And putting out to sea from there we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.
Acts	27:5	And when we had sailed across the open sea along the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra in Lycia.
Acts	27:6	There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy and put us on board.
Acts	27:7	We sailed slowly for a number of days and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus, and as the wind did not allow us to go farther, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmone.
Acts	27:8	Coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea.
Acts	27:9	Since much time had passed, and the voyage was now dangerous because even the Fast was already over, Paul advised them,
Acts	27:10	saying, "Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives."
Acts	27:11	But the centurion paid more attention to the pilot and to the owner of the ship than to what Paul said.
Acts	27:12	And because the harbor was not suitable to spend the winter in, the majority decided to put out to sea from there, on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete, facing both southwest and northwest, and spend the winter there.
Acts	27:13	Now when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to the shore.
Acts	27:14	But soon a tempestuous wind, called the northeaster, struck down from the land.
Acts	27:15	And when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along.
Acts	27:16	Running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's boat.
Acts	27:17	After hoisting it up, they used supports to undergird the ship. Then, fearing that they would run aground on the Syrtis, they lowered the gear, and thus they were driven along.
Acts	27:18	Since we were violently storm-tossed, they began the next day to jettison the cargo.
Acts	27:19	And on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands.
Acts	27:20	When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned.
Acts	27:21	Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, "Men, you should have listened to me and not have set sail from Crete and incurred this injury and loss.
Acts	27:22	Yet now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
Acts	27:23	For this very night there stood before me an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship,
Acts	27:24	and he said, 'Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you.'
Acts	27:25	So take heart, men, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told.
Acts	27:26	But we must run aground on some island."
Acts	27:27	When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing land.
Acts	27:28	So they took a sounding and found twenty fathoms. A little farther on they took a sounding again and found fifteen fathoms.
Acts	27:29	And fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern and prayed for day to come.
Acts	27:30	And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, and had lowered the ship's boat into the sea under pretense of laying out anchors from the bow,
Acts	27:31	Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, "Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved."
Acts	27:32	Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship's boat and let it go.
Acts	27:33	As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing.
Acts	27:34	Therefore I urge you to take some food. It will give you strength, for not a hair is to perish from the head of any of you."
Acts	27:35	And when he had said these things, he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all he broke it and began to eat.
Acts	27:36	Then they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves.
Acts	27:37	(We were in all 276 persons in the ship.)
Acts	27:38	And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
Acts	27:39	Now when it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed a bay with a beach, on which they planned if possible to run the ship ashore.
Acts	27:40	So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the ropes that tied the rudders. Then hoisting the foresail to the wind they made for the beach.
Acts	27:41	But striking a reef, they ran the vessel aground. The bow stuck and remained immovable, and the stern was being broken up by the surf.
Acts	27:42	The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape.
Acts	27:43	But the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and make for the land,
Acts	27:44	and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all were brought safely to land.
Acts	28:1	After we were brought safely through, we then learned that the island was called Malta.
Acts	28:2	The native people showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had begun to rain and was cold.
Acts	28:3	When Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand.
Acts	28:4	When the native people saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "No doubt this man is a murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, Justice has not allowed him to live."
Acts	28:5	He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm.
Acts	28:6	They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But when they had waited a long time and saw no misfortune come to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
Acts	28:7	Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days.
Acts	28:8	It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery. And Paul visited him and prayed, and putting his hands on him healed him.
Acts	28:9	And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured.
Acts	28:10	They also honored us greatly, and when we were about to sail, they put on board whatever we needed.
Acts	28:11	After three months we set sail in a ship that had wintered in the island, a ship of Alexandria, with the twin gods as a figurehead.
Acts	28:12	Putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
Acts	28:13	And from there we made a circuit and arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli.
Acts	28:14	There we found brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so we came to Rome.
Acts	28:15	And the brothers there, when they heard about us, came as far as the Forum of Appius and Three Taverns to meet us. On seeing them, Paul thanked God and took courage.
Acts	28:16	And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself, with the soldier that guarded him.
Acts	28:17	After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews, and when they had gathered, he said to them, "Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
Acts	28:18	When they had examined me, they wished to set me at liberty, because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case.
Acts	28:19	But because the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar--though I had no charge to bring against my nation.
Acts	28:20	For this reason, therefore, I have asked to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am wearing this chain."
Acts	28:21	And they said to him, "We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brothers coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you.
Acts	28:22	But we desire to hear from you what your views are, for with regard to this sect we know that everywhere it is spoken against."
Acts	28:23	When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From morning till evening he expounded to them, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus both from the Law of Moses and from the Prophets.
Acts	28:24	And some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved.
Acts	28:25	And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul had made one statement: "The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:
Acts	28:26	"'Go to this people, and say, You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.
Acts	28:27	For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed; lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.'
Acts	28:28	Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen."
Acts	28:29	See Footnote
Acts	28:30	He lived there two whole years at his own expense, and welcomed all who came to him,
Acts	28:31	proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance.
Romans	1:1	Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,
Romans	1:2	which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures,
Romans	1:3	concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh
Romans	1:4	and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,
Romans	1:5	through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations,
Romans	1:6	including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ,
Romans	1:7	To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints:Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans	1:8	First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world.
Romans	1:9	For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I mention you
Romans	1:10	always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you.
Romans	1:11	For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you--
Romans	1:12	that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.
Romans	1:13	I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you (but thus far have been prevented), in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles.
Romans	1:14	I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish.
Romans	1:15	So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
Romans	1:16	For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
Romans	1:17	For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, "The righteous shall live by faith."
Romans	1:18	For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth.
Romans	1:19	For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them.
Romans	1:20	For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.
Romans	1:21	For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened.
Romans	1:22	Claiming to be wise, they became fools,
Romans	1:23	and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles.
Romans	1:24	Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves,
Romans	1:25	because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen.
Romans	1:26	For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature;
Romans	1:27	and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.
Romans	1:28	And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done.
Romans	1:29	They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips,
Romans	1:30	slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
Romans	1:31	foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless.
Romans	1:32	Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.
Romans	2:1	Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things.
Romans	2:2	We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who do such things.
Romans	2:3	Do you suppose, O man--you who judge those who do such things and yet do them yourself--that you will escape the judgment of God?
Romans	2:4	Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance?
Romans	2:5	But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed.
Romans	2:6	He will render to each one according to his works:
Romans	2:7	to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life;
Romans	2:8	but for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury.
Romans	2:9	There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek,
Romans	2:10	but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek.
Romans	2:11	For God shows no partiality.
Romans	2:12	For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.
Romans	2:13	For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified.
Romans	2:14	For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law.
Romans	2:15	They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them
Romans	2:16	on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.
Romans	2:17	But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God
Romans	2:18	and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law;
Romans	2:19	and if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
Romans	2:20	an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth--
Romans	2:21	you then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal?
Romans	2:22	You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?
Romans	2:23	You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law.
Romans	2:24	For, as it is written, "The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you."
Romans	2:25	For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law, but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
Romans	2:26	So, if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision?
Romans	2:27	Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law.
Romans	2:28	For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical.
Romans	2:29	But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God.
Romans	3:1	Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision?
Romans	3:2	Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God.
Romans	3:3	What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God?
Romans	3:4	By no means! Let God be true though every one were a liar, as it is written, "That you may be justified in your words, and prevail when you are judged."
Romans	3:5	But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? (I speak in a human way.)
Romans	3:6	By no means! For then how could God judge the world?
Romans	3:7	But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner?
Romans	3:8	And why not do evil that good may come?--as some people slanderously charge us with saying. Their condemnation is just.
Romans	3:9	What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin,
Romans	3:10	as it is written: "None is righteous, no, not one;
Romans	3:11	no one understands; no one seeks for God.
Romans	3:12	All have turned aside; together they have become worthless; no one does good, not even one."
Romans	3:13	"Their throat is an open grave; they use their tongues to deceive.The venom of asps is under their lips."
Romans	3:14	"Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness."
Romans	3:15	"Their feet are swift to shed blood;
Romans	3:16	in their paths are ruin and misery,
Romans	3:17	and the way of peace they have not known."
Romans	3:18	"There is no fear of God before their eyes."
Romans	3:19	Now we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God.
Romans	3:20	For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.
Romans	3:21	But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it--
Romans	3:22	the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction:
Romans	3:23	for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
Romans	3:24	and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
Romans	3:25	whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.
Romans	3:26	It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.
Romans	3:27	Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith.
Romans	3:28	For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
Romans	3:29	Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also,
Romans	3:30	since God is one. He will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith.
Romans	3:31	Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law.
Romans	4:1	What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh?
Romans	4:2	For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God.
Romans	4:3	For what does the Scripture say? "Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness."
Romans	4:4	Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due.
Romans	4:5	And to the one who does not work but trusts him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness,
Romans	4:6	just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:
Romans	4:7	"Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and whose sins are covered;
Romans	4:8	blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin."
Romans	4:9	Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, or also for the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness.
Romans	4:10	How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised.
Romans	4:11	He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,
Romans	4:12	and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.
Romans	4:13	For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith.
Romans	4:14	For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void.
Romans	4:15	For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law there is no transgression.
Romans	4:16	That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring--not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all,
Romans	4:17	as it is written, "I have made you the father of many nations"--in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist.
Romans	4:18	In hope he believed against hope, that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, "So shall your offspring be."
Romans	4:19	He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead (since he was about a hundred years old), or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb.
Romans	4:20	No distrust made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
Romans	4:21	fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised.
Romans	4:22	That is why his faith was "counted to him as righteousness."
Romans	4:23	But the words "it was counted to him" were not written for his sake alone,
Romans	4:24	but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,
Romans	4:25	who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.
Romans	5:1	Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans	5:2	Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
Romans	5:3	More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance,
Romans	5:4	and endurance produces character, and character produces hope,
Romans	5:5	and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
Romans	5:6	For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.
Romans	5:7	For one will scarcely die for a righteous person--though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die--
Romans	5:8	but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Romans	5:9	Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God.
Romans	5:10	For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
Romans	5:11	More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Romans	5:12	Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned--
Romans	5:13	for sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law.
Romans	5:14	Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come.
Romans	5:15	But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many.
Romans	5:16	And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification.
Romans	5:17	If, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.
Romans	5:18	Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men.
Romans	5:19	For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.
Romans	5:20	Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more,
Romans	5:21	so that, as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Romans	6:1	What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound?
Romans	6:2	By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it?
Romans	6:3	Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
Romans	6:4	We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.
Romans	6:5	For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.
Romans	6:6	We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.
Romans	6:7	For one who has died has been set free from sin.
Romans	6:8	Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.
Romans	6:9	We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him.
Romans	6:10	For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God.
Romans	6:11	So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Romans	6:12	Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make you obey their passions.
Romans	6:13	Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness.
Romans	6:14	For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
Romans	6:15	What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means!
Romans	6:16	Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness?
Romans	6:17	But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed,
Romans	6:18	and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.
Romans	6:19	I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification.
Romans	6:20	When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness.
Romans	6:21	But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death.
Romans	6:22	But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.
Romans	6:23	For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans	7:1	Or do you not know, brothers--for I am speaking to those who know the law--that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives?
Romans	7:2	Thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage.
Romans	7:3	Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.
Romans	7:4	Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God.
Romans	7:5	For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death.
Romans	7:6	But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code but in the new life of the Spirit.
Romans	7:7	What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, "You shall not covet."
Romans	7:8	But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies dead.
Romans	7:9	I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died.
Romans	7:10	The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me.
Romans	7:11	For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me.
Romans	7:12	So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
Romans	7:13	Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure.
Romans	7:14	For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin.
Romans	7:15	I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate.
Romans	7:16	Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it is good.
Romans	7:17	So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me.
Romans	7:18	For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.
Romans	7:19	For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing.
Romans	7:20	Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me.
Romans	7:21	So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand.
Romans	7:22	For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being,
Romans	7:23	but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.
Romans	7:24	Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
Romans	7:25	Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
Romans	8:1	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
Romans	8:2	For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.
Romans	8:3	For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh,
Romans	8:4	in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
Romans	8:5	For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit.
Romans	8:6	To set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.
Romans	8:7	For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot.
Romans	8:8	Those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
Romans	8:9	You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.
Romans	8:10	But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness.
Romans	8:11	If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
Romans	8:12	So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.
Romans	8:13	For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
Romans	8:14	For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.
Romans	8:15	For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, "Abba! Father!"
Romans	8:16	The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,
Romans	8:17	and if children, then heirs--heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him.
Romans	8:18	For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.
Romans	8:19	For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God.
Romans	8:20	For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope
Romans	8:21	that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Romans	8:22	For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now.
Romans	8:23	And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies.
Romans	8:24	For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees?
Romans	8:25	But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.
Romans	8:26	Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words.
Romans	8:27	And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
Romans	8:28	And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.
Romans	8:29	For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers.
Romans	8:30	And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.
Romans	8:31	What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Romans	8:32	He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?
Romans	8:33	Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Romans	8:34	Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died--more than that, who was raised--who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.
Romans	8:35	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
Romans	8:36	As it is written, "For your sake we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered."
Romans	8:37	No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
Romans	8:38	For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers,
Romans	8:39	nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans	9:1	I am speaking the truth in Christ--I am not lying; my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit--
Romans	9:2	that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart.
Romans	9:3	For I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh.
Romans	9:4	They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises.
Romans	9:5	To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.
Romans	9:6	But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel,
Romans	9:7	and not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but "Through Isaac shall your offspring be named."
Romans	9:8	This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring.
Romans	9:9	For this is what the promise said: "About this time next year I will return and Sarah shall have a son."
Romans	9:10	And not only so, but also when Rebecca had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac,
Romans	9:11	though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad--in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works but because of his call--
Romans	9:12	she was told, "The older will serve the younger."
Romans	9:13	As it is written, "Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated."
Romans	9:14	What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means!
Romans	9:15	For he says to Moses, "I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion."
Romans	9:16	So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy.
Romans	9:17	For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth."
Romans	9:18	So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.
Romans	9:19	You will say to me then, "Why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?"
Romans	9:20	But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, "Why have you made me like this?"
Romans	9:21	Has the potter no right over the clay, to make out of the same lump one vessel for honored use and another for dishonorable use?
Romans	9:22	What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction,
Romans	9:23	in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory--
Romans	9:24	even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles?
Romans	9:25	As indeed he says in Hosea, "Those who were not my people I will call 'my people,' and her who was not beloved I will call 'beloved.'"
Romans	9:26	"And in the very place where it was said to them, 'You are not my people,' there they will be called 'sons of the living God.'"
Romans	9:27	And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: "Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved,
Romans	9:28	for the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay."
Romans	9:29	And as Isaiah predicted, "If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah."
Romans	9:30	What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith;
Romans	9:31	but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law.
Romans	9:32	Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone,
Romans	9:33	as it is written, "Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame."
Romans	10:1	Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved.
Romans	10:2	I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.
Romans	10:3	For, being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness.
Romans	10:4	For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
Romans	10:5	For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them.
Romans	10:6	But the righteousness based on faith says, "Do not say in your heart, 'Who will ascend into heaven?'" (that is, to bring Christ down)
Romans	10:7	or "'Who will descend into the abyss?'" (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead).
Romans	10:8	But what does it say? "The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart" (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim);
Romans	10:9	because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
Romans	10:10	For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.
Romans	10:11	For the Scripture says, "Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame."
Romans	10:12	For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him.
Romans	10:13	For "everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved."
Romans	10:14	But how are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching?
Romans	10:15	And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!"
Romans	10:16	But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?"
Romans	10:17	So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
Romans	10:18	But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for "Their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world."
Romans	10:19	But I ask, did Israel not understand? First Moses says, "I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation; with a foolish nation I will make you angry."
Romans	10:20	Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, "I have been found by those who did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me."
Romans	10:21	But of Israel he says, "All day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people."
Romans	11:1	I ask, then, has God rejected his people? By no means! For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin.
Romans	11:2	God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says of Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel?
Romans	11:3	"Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life."
Romans	11:4	But what is God's reply to him? "I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal."
Romans	11:5	So too at the present time there is a remnant, chosen by grace.
Romans	11:6	But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.
Romans	11:7	What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened,
Romans	11:8	as it is written, "God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, down to this very day."
Romans	11:9	And David says, "Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them;
Romans	11:10	let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever."
Romans	11:11	So I ask, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means! Rather through their trespass salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous.
Romans	11:12	Now if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean!
Romans	11:13	Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry
Romans	11:14	in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous, and thus save some of them.
Romans	11:15	For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead?
Romans	11:16	If the dough offered as firstfruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
Romans	11:17	But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree,
Romans	11:18	do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you.
Romans	11:19	Then you will say, "Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in."
Romans	11:20	That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but stand in awe.
Romans	11:21	For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you.
Romans	11:22	Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off.
Romans	11:23	And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again.
Romans	11:24	For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree.
Romans	11:25	Lest you be wise in your own conceits, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers: a partial hardening has come upon Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in.
Romans	11:26	And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, "The Deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob";
Romans	11:27	"and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins."
Romans	11:28	As regards the gospel, they are enemies of God for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers.
Romans	11:29	For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
Romans	11:30	Just as you were at one time disobedient to God but now have received mercy because of their disobedience,
Romans	11:31	so they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also may now receive mercy.
Romans	11:32	For God has consigned all to disobedience, that he may have mercy on all.
Romans	11:33	Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!
Romans	11:34	"For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor?"
Romans	11:35	"Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid?"
Romans	11:36	For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen.
Romans	12:1	I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.
Romans	12:2	Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
Romans	12:3	For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned.
Romans	12:4	For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function,
Romans	12:5	so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
Romans	12:6	Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith;
Romans	12:7	if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching;
Romans	12:8	the one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.
Romans	12:9	Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.
Romans	12:10	Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.
Romans	12:11	Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
Romans	12:12	Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer.
Romans	12:13	Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.
Romans	12:14	Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them.
Romans	12:15	Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.
Romans	12:16	Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be conceited.
Romans	12:17	Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.
Romans	12:18	If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.
Romans	12:19	Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord."
Romans	12:20	To the contrary, "if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head."
Romans	12:21	Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans	13:1	Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.
Romans	13:2	Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment.
Romans	13:3	For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval,
Romans	13:4	for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer.
Romans	13:5	Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience.
Romans	13:6	For the same reason you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing.
Romans	13:7	Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.
Romans	13:8	Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.
Romans	13:9	The commandments, "You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet," and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Romans	13:10	Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
Romans	13:11	Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.
Romans	13:12	The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.
Romans	13:13	Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy.
Romans	13:14	But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires.
Romans	14:1	As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions.
Romans	14:2	One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables.
Romans	14:3	Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him.
Romans	14:4	Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
Romans	14:5	One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind.
Romans	14:6	The one who observes the day, observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God.
Romans	14:7	For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself.
Romans	14:8	If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's.
Romans	14:9	For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
Romans	14:10	Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God;
Romans	14:11	for it is written, "As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God."
Romans	14:12	So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.
Romans	14:13	Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.
Romans	14:14	I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean.
Romans	14:15	For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died.
Romans	14:16	So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil.
Romans	14:17	For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
Romans	14:18	Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.
Romans	14:19	So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding.
Romans	14:20	Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats.
Romans	14:21	It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
Romans	14:22	The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves.
Romans	14:23	But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
Romans	15:1	We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves.
Romans	15:2	Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up.
Romans	15:3	For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, "The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me."
Romans	15:4	For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Romans	15:5	May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus,
Romans	15:6	that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans	15:7	Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.
Romans	15:8	For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs,
Romans	15:9	and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, "Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name."
Romans	15:10	And again it is said, "Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people."
Romans	15:11	And again, "Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him."
Romans	15:12	And again Isaiah says, "The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles; in him will the Gentiles hope."
Romans	15:13	May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
Romans	15:14	I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge and able to instruct one another.
Romans	15:15	But on some points I have written to you very boldly by way of reminder, because of the grace given me by God
Romans	15:16	to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles in the priestly service of the gospel of God, so that the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Romans	15:17	In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my work for God.
Romans	15:18	For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience--by word and deed,
Romans	15:19	by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God--so that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ;
Romans	15:20	and thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel, not where Christ has already been named, lest I build on someone else's foundation,
Romans	15:21	but as it is written, "Those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand."
Romans	15:22	This is the reason why I have so often been hindered from coming to you.
Romans	15:23	But now, since I no longer have any room for work in these regions, and since I have longed for many years to come to you,
Romans	15:24	I hope to see you in passing as I go to Spain, and to be helped on my journey there by you, once I have enjoyed your company for a while.
Romans	15:25	At present, however, I am going to Jerusalem bringing aid to the saints.
Romans	15:26	For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints at Jerusalem.
Romans	15:27	They were pleased to do it, and indeed they owe it to them. For if the Gentiles have come to share in their spiritual blessings, they ought also to be of service to them in material blessings.
Romans	15:28	When therefore I have completed this and have delivered to them what has been collected, I will leave for Spain by way of you.
Romans	15:29	I know that when I come to you I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
Romans	15:30	I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
Romans	15:31	that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
Romans	15:32	so that by God's will I may come to you with joy and be refreshed in your company.
Romans	15:33	May the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Romans	16:1	I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Cenchreae,
Romans	16:2	that you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints, and help her in whatever she may need from you, for she has been a patron of many and of myself as well.
Romans	16:3	Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
Romans	16:4	who risked their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well.
Romans	16:5	Greet also the church in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus, who was the first convert to Christ in Asia.
Romans	16:6	Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you.
Romans	16:7	Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners. They are well known to the apostles, and they were in Christ before me.
Romans	16:8	Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Romans	16:9	Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachys.
Romans	16:10	Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus.
Romans	16:11	Greet my kinsman Herodion. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissus.
Romans	16:12	Greet those workers in the Lord, Tryphaena and Tryphosa. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Romans	16:13	Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord; also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well.
Romans	16:14	Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
Romans	16:15	Greet Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Romans	16:16	Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
Romans	16:17	I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them.
Romans	16:18	For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Romans	16:19	For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil.
Romans	16:20	The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Romans	16:21	Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you; so do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
Romans	16:22	I Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord.
Romans	16:23	Gaius, who is host to me and to the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, and our brother Quartus, greet you.
Romans	16:24	See Footnote
Romans	16:25	Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages
Romans	16:26	but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith--
Romans	16:27	to the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ! Amen.
1 Corinthians	1:1	Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes,
1 Corinthians	1:2	To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:
1 Corinthians	1:3	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians	1:4	I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus,
1 Corinthians	1:5	that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge--
1 Corinthians	1:6	even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you--
1 Corinthians	1:7	so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Corinthians	1:8	who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians	1:9	God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Corinthians	1:10	I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.
1 Corinthians	1:11	For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers.
1 Corinthians	1:12	What I mean is that each one of you says, "I follow Paul," or "I follow Apollos," or "I follow Cephas," or "I follow Christ."
1 Corinthians	1:13	Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
1 Corinthians	1:14	I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1 Corinthians	1:15	so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name.
1 Corinthians	1:16	(I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.)
1 Corinthians	1:17	For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
1 Corinthians	1:18	For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1 Corinthians	1:19	For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart."
1 Corinthians	1:20	Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
1 Corinthians	1:21	For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe.
1 Corinthians	1:22	For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1 Corinthians	1:23	but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles,
1 Corinthians	1:24	but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1 Corinthians	1:25	For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1 Corinthians	1:26	For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth.
1 Corinthians	1:27	But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong;
1 Corinthians	1:28	God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are,
1 Corinthians	1:29	so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.
1 Corinthians	1:30	He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and redemption.
1 Corinthians	1:31	Therefore, as it is written, "Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord."
1 Corinthians	2:1	And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom.
1 Corinthians	2:2	For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
1 Corinthians	2:3	And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling,
1 Corinthians	2:4	and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
1 Corinthians	2:5	that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
1 Corinthians	2:6	Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to pass away.
1 Corinthians	2:7	But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory.
1 Corinthians	2:8	None of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
1 Corinthians	2:9	But, as it is written, "What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him"--
1 Corinthians	2:10	these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
1 Corinthians	2:11	For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians	2:12	Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.
1 Corinthians	2:13	And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.
1 Corinthians	2:14	The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
1 Corinthians	2:15	The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.
1 Corinthians	2:16	"For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?" But we have the mind of Christ.
1 Corinthians	3:1	But I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people, but as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ.
1 Corinthians	3:2	I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready,
1 Corinthians	3:3	for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way?
1 Corinthians	3:4	For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," are you not being merely human?
1 Corinthians	3:5	What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each.
1 Corinthians	3:6	I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth.
1 Corinthians	3:7	So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.
1 Corinthians	3:8	He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor.
1 Corinthians	3:9	For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building.
1 Corinthians	3:10	According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it.
1 Corinthians	3:11	For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians	3:12	Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw--
1 Corinthians	3:13	each one's work will become manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done.
1 Corinthians	3:14	If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.
1 Corinthians	3:15	If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.
1 Corinthians	3:16	Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?
1 Corinthians	3:17	If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.
1 Corinthians	3:18	Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.
1 Corinthians	3:19	For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, "He catches the wise in their craftiness,"
1 Corinthians	3:20	and again, "The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile."
1 Corinthians	3:21	So let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,
1 Corinthians	3:22	whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future--all are yours,
1 Corinthians	3:23	and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.
1 Corinthians	4:1	This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1 Corinthians	4:2	Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy.
1 Corinthians	4:3	But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself.
1 Corinthians	4:4	I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.
1 Corinthians	4:5	Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God.
1 Corinthians	4:6	I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another.
1 Corinthians	4:7	For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it?
1 Corinthians	4:8	Already you have all you want! Already you have become rich! Without us you have become kings! And would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you!
1 Corinthians	4:9	For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.
1 Corinthians	4:10	We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute.
1 Corinthians	4:11	To the present hour we hunger and thirst, we are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless,
1 Corinthians	4:12	and we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;
1 Corinthians	4:13	when slandered, we entreat. We have become, and are still, like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things.
1 Corinthians	4:14	I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
1 Corinthians	4:15	For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
1 Corinthians	4:16	I urge you, then, be imitators of me.
1 Corinthians	4:17	That is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, to remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach them everywhere in every church.
1 Corinthians	4:18	Some are arrogant, as though I were not coming to you.
1 Corinthians	4:19	But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people but their power.
1 Corinthians	4:20	For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.
1 Corinthians	4:21	What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love in a spirit of gentleness?
1 Corinthians	5:1	It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife.
1 Corinthians	5:2	And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you.
1 Corinthians	5:3	For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing.
1 Corinthians	5:4	When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
1 Corinthians	5:5	you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
1 Corinthians	5:6	Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
1 Corinthians	5:7	Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
1 Corinthians	5:8	Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1 Corinthians	5:9	I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people--
1 Corinthians	5:10	not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world.
1 Corinthians	5:11	But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler--not even to eat with such a one.
1 Corinthians	5:12	For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge?
1 Corinthians	5:13	God judges those outside. "Purge the evil person from among you."
1 Corinthians	6:1	When one of you has a grievance against another, does he dare go to law before the unrighteous instead of the saints?
1 Corinthians	6:2	Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases?
1 Corinthians	6:3	Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life!
1 Corinthians	6:4	So if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church?
1 Corinthians	6:5	I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers,
1 Corinthians	6:6	but brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers?
1 Corinthians	6:7	To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded?
1 Corinthians	6:8	But you yourselves wrong and defraud--even your own brothers!
1 Corinthians	6:9	Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality,
1 Corinthians	6:10	nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
1 Corinthians	6:11	And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.
1 Corinthians	6:12	"All things are lawful for me," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful for me," but I will not be enslaved by anything.
1 Corinthians	6:13	"Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food"--and God will destroy both one and the other. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
1 Corinthians	6:14	And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power.
1 Corinthians	6:15	Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never!
1 Corinthians	6:16	Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is written, "The two will become one flesh."
1 Corinthians	6:17	But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him.
1 Corinthians	6:18	Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body.
1 Corinthians	6:19	Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own,
1 Corinthians	6:20	for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body.
1 Corinthians	7:1	Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: "It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman."
1 Corinthians	7:2	But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.
1 Corinthians	7:3	The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband.
1 Corinthians	7:4	For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
1 Corinthians	7:5	Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
1 Corinthians	7:6	Now as a concession, not a command, I say this.
1 Corinthians	7:7	I wish that all were as I myself am. But each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another.
1 Corinthians	7:8	To the unmarried and the widows I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am.
1 Corinthians	7:9	But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to be aflame with passion.
1 Corinthians	7:10	To the married I give this charge (not I, but the Lord): the wife should not separate from her husband
1 Corinthians	7:11	(but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband should not divorce his wife.
1 Corinthians	7:12	To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her.
1 Corinthians	7:13	If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him.
1 Corinthians	7:14	For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.
1 Corinthians	7:15	But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace.
1 Corinthians	7:16	Wife, how do you know whether you will save your husband? Husband, how do you know whether you will save your wife?
1 Corinthians	7:17	Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches.
1 Corinthians	7:18	Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision.
1 Corinthians	7:19	For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God.
1 Corinthians	7:20	Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called.
1 Corinthians	7:21	Were you a slave when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity.
1 Corinthians	7:22	For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a freedman of the Lord. Likewise he who was free when called is a slave of Christ.
1 Corinthians	7:23	You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men.
1 Corinthians	7:24	So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God.
1 Corinthians	7:25	Now concerning the betrothed, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who by the Lord's mercy is trustworthy.
1 Corinthians	7:26	I think that in view of the present distress it is good for a person to remain as he is.
1 Corinthians	7:27	Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1 Corinthians	7:28	But if you do marry, you have not sinned, and if a betrothed woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that.
1 Corinthians	7:29	This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none,
1 Corinthians	7:30	and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods,
1 Corinthians	7:31	and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing away.
1 Corinthians	7:32	I want you to be free from anxieties. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord.
1 Corinthians	7:33	But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife,
1 Corinthians	7:34	and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her husband.
1 Corinthians	7:35	I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord.
1 Corinthians	7:36	If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed, if his passions are strong, and it has to be, let him do as he wishes: let them marry--it is no sin.
1 Corinthians	7:37	But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well.
1 Corinthians	7:38	So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better.
1 Corinthians	7:39	A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.
1 Corinthians	7:40	Yet in my judgment she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I too have the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians	8:1	Now concerning food offered to idols: we know that "all of us possess knowledge." This "knowledge" puffs up, but love builds up.
1 Corinthians	8:2	If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know.
1 Corinthians	8:3	But if anyone loves God, he is known by God.
1 Corinthians	8:4	Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that "an idol has no real existence," and that "there is no God but one."
1 Corinthians	8:5	For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth--as indeed there are many "gods" and many "lords"--
1 Corinthians	8:6	yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist.
1 Corinthians	8:7	However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, through former association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
1 Corinthians	8:8	Food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do.
1 Corinthians	8:9	But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak.
1 Corinthians	8:10	For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged, if his conscience is weak, to eat food offered to idols?
1 Corinthians	8:11	And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died.
1 Corinthians	8:12	Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.
1 Corinthians	8:13	Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble.
1 Corinthians	9:1	Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are not you my workmanship in the Lord?
1 Corinthians	9:2	If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.
1 Corinthians	9:3	This is my defense to those who would examine me.
1 Corinthians	9:4	Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
1 Corinthians	9:5	Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
1 Corinthians	9:6	Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living?
1 Corinthians	9:7	Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
1 Corinthians	9:8	Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the same?
1 Corinthians	9:9	For it is written in the Law of Moses, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain." Is it for oxen that God is concerned?
1 Corinthians	9:10	Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.
1 Corinthians	9:11	If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you?
1 Corinthians	9:12	If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more?Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ.
1 Corinthians	9:13	Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings?
1 Corinthians	9:14	In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.
1 Corinthians	9:15	But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such provision. For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting.
1 Corinthians	9:16	For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel!
1 Corinthians	9:17	For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward, but not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship.
1 Corinthians	9:18	What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel.
1 Corinthians	9:19	For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them.
1 Corinthians	9:20	To the Jews I became as a Jew, in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law (though not being myself under the law) that I might win those under the law.
1 Corinthians	9:21	To those outside the law I became as one outside the law (not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ) that I might win those outside the law.
1 Corinthians	9:22	To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some.
1 Corinthians	9:23	I do it all for the sake of the gospel, that I may share with them in its blessings.
1 Corinthians	9:24	Do you not know that in a race all the runners compete, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it.
1 Corinthians	9:25	Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.
1 Corinthians	9:26	So I do not run aimlessly; I do not box as one beating the air.
1 Corinthians	9:27	But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.
1 Corinthians	10:1	I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea,
1 Corinthians	10:2	and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
1 Corinthians	10:3	and all ate the same spiritual food,
1 Corinthians	10:4	and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ.
1 Corinthians	10:5	Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
1 Corinthians	10:6	Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did.
1 Corinthians	10:7	Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play."
1 Corinthians	10:8	We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day.
1 Corinthians	10:9	We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents,
1 Corinthians	10:10	nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.
1 Corinthians	10:11	Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come.
1 Corinthians	10:12	Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.
1 Corinthians	10:13	No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.
1 Corinthians	10:14	Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
1 Corinthians	10:15	I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say.
1 Corinthians	10:16	The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?
1 Corinthians	10:17	Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
1 Corinthians	10:18	Consider the people of Israel: are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar?
1 Corinthians	10:19	What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?
1 Corinthians	10:20	No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons.
1 Corinthians	10:21	You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
1 Corinthians	10:22	Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
1 Corinthians	10:23	"All things are lawful," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful," but not all things build up.
1 Corinthians	10:24	Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.
1 Corinthians	10:25	Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1 Corinthians	10:26	For "the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof."
1 Corinthians	10:27	If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1 Corinthians	10:28	But if someone says to you, "This has been offered in sacrifice," then do not eat it, for the sake of the one who informed you, and for the sake of conscience--
1 Corinthians	10:29	I do not mean your conscience, but his. For why should my liberty be determined by someone else's conscience?
1 Corinthians	10:30	If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
1 Corinthians	10:31	So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
1 Corinthians	10:32	Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God,
1 Corinthians	10:33	just as I try to please everyone in everything I do, not seeking my own advantage, but that of many, that they may be saved.
1 Corinthians	11:1	Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
1 Corinthians	11:2	Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I delivered them to you.
1 Corinthians	11:3	But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God.
1 Corinthians	11:4	Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head,
1 Corinthians	11:5	but every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head--it is the same as if her head were shaven.
1 Corinthians	11:6	For if a wife will not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a wife to cut off her hair or shave her head, let her cover her head.
1 Corinthians	11:7	For a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory of man.
1 Corinthians	11:8	For man was not made from woman, but woman from man.
1 Corinthians	11:9	Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.
1 Corinthians	11:10	That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.
1 Corinthians	11:11	Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman;
1 Corinthians	11:12	for as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.
1 Corinthians	11:13	Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a wife to pray to God with her head uncovered?
1 Corinthians	11:14	Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him,
1 Corinthians	11:15	but if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For her hair is given to her for a covering.
1 Corinthians	11:16	If anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no such practice, nor do the churches of God.
1 Corinthians	11:17	But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse.
1 Corinthians	11:18	For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I believe it in part,
1 Corinthians	11:19	for there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized.
1 Corinthians	11:20	When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.
1 Corinthians	11:21	For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk.
1 Corinthians	11:22	What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not.
1 Corinthians	11:23	For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,
1 Corinthians	11:24	and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me."
1 Corinthians	11:25	In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me."
1 Corinthians	11:26	For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
1 Corinthians	11:27	Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord.
1 Corinthians	11:28	Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
1 Corinthians	11:29	For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
1 Corinthians	11:30	That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died.
1 Corinthians	11:31	But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged.
1 Corinthians	11:32	But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world.
1 Corinthians	11:33	So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another--
1 Corinthians	11:34	if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home--so that when you come together it will not be for judgment. About the other things I will give directions when I come.
1 Corinthians	12:1	Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed.
1 Corinthians	12:2	You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led.
1 Corinthians	12:3	Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says "Jesus is accursed!" and no one can say "Jesus is Lord" except in the Holy Spirit.
1 Corinthians	12:4	Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit;
1 Corinthians	12:5	and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord;
1 Corinthians	12:6	and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone.
1 Corinthians	12:7	To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
1 Corinthians	12:8	To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
1 Corinthians	12:9	to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
1 Corinthians	12:10	to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues.
1 Corinthians	12:11	All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills.
1 Corinthians	12:12	For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ.
1 Corinthians	12:13	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body--Jews or Greeks, slaves or free--and all were made to drink of one Spirit.
1 Corinthians	12:14	For the body does not consist of one member but of many.
1 Corinthians	12:15	If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body," that would not make it any less a part of the body.
1 Corinthians	12:16	And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body," that would not make it any less a part of the body.
1 Corinthians	12:17	If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell?
1 Corinthians	12:18	But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose.
1 Corinthians	12:19	If all were a single member, where would the body be?
1 Corinthians	12:20	As it is, there are many parts, yet one body.
1 Corinthians	12:21	The eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you," nor again the head to the feet, "I have no need of you."
1 Corinthians	12:22	On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable,
1 Corinthians	12:23	and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty,
1 Corinthians	12:24	which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it,
1 Corinthians	12:25	that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another.
1 Corinthians	12:26	If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.
1 Corinthians	12:27	Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it.
1 Corinthians	12:28	And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues.
1 Corinthians	12:29	Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?
1 Corinthians	12:30	Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
1 Corinthians	12:31	But earnestly desire the higher gifts.And I will show you a still more excellent way.
1 Corinthians	13:1	If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
1 Corinthians	13:2	And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
1 Corinthians	13:3	If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.
1 Corinthians	13:4	Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant
1 Corinthians	13:5	or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;
1 Corinthians	13:6	it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.
1 Corinthians	13:7	Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
1 Corinthians	13:8	Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.
1 Corinthians	13:9	For we know in part and we prophesy in part,
1 Corinthians	13:10	but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.
1 Corinthians	13:11	When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish ways.
1 Corinthians	13:12	For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known.
1 Corinthians	13:13	So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.
1 Corinthians	14:1	Pursue love, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
1 Corinthians	14:2	For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.
1 Corinthians	14:3	On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.
1 Corinthians	14:4	The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church.
1 Corinthians	14:5	Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up.
1 Corinthians	14:6	Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
1 Corinthians	14:7	If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know what is played?
1 Corinthians	14:8	And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
1 Corinthians	14:9	So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.
1 Corinthians	14:10	There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning,
1 Corinthians	14:11	but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
1 Corinthians	14:12	So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.
1 Corinthians	14:13	Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret.
1 Corinthians	14:14	For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful.
1 Corinthians	14:15	What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also.
1 Corinthians	14:16	Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say "Amen" to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?
1 Corinthians	14:17	For you may be giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not being built up.
1 Corinthians	14:18	I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.
1 Corinthians	14:19	Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
1 Corinthians	14:20	Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature.
1 Corinthians	14:21	In the Law it is written, "By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord."
1 Corinthians	14:22	Thus tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers.
1 Corinthians	14:23	If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds?
1 Corinthians	14:24	But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,
1 Corinthians	14:25	the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you.
1 Corinthians	14:26	What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
1 Corinthians	14:27	If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret.
1 Corinthians	14:28	But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God.
1 Corinthians	14:29	Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
1 Corinthians	14:30	If a revelation is made to another sitting there, let the first be silent.
1 Corinthians	14:31	For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged,
1 Corinthians	14:32	and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
1 Corinthians	14:33	For God is not a God of confusion but of peace.As in all the churches of the saints,
1 Corinthians	14:34	the women should keep silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission, as the Law also says.
1 Corinthians	14:35	If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
1 Corinthians	14:36	Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it has reached?
1 Corinthians	14:37	If anyone thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are a command of the Lord.
1 Corinthians	14:38	If anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
1 Corinthians	14:39	So, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues.
1 Corinthians	14:40	But all things should be done decently and in order.
1 Corinthians	15:1	Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand,
1 Corinthians	15:2	and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you--unless you believed in vain.
1 Corinthians	15:3	For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians	15:4	that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians	15:5	and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
1 Corinthians	15:6	Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians	15:7	Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
1 Corinthians	15:8	Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.
1 Corinthians	15:9	For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
1 Corinthians	15:10	But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me.
1 Corinthians	15:11	Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed.
1 Corinthians	15:12	Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Corinthians	15:13	But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
1 Corinthians	15:14	And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain.
1 Corinthians	15:15	We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised.
1 Corinthians	15:16	For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised.
1 Corinthians	15:17	And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins.
1 Corinthians	15:18	Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
1 Corinthians	15:19	If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied.
1 Corinthians	15:20	But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians	15:21	For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
1 Corinthians	15:22	For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
1 Corinthians	15:23	But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.
1 Corinthians	15:24	Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power.
1 Corinthians	15:25	For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
1 Corinthians	15:26	The last enemy to be destroyed is death.
1 Corinthians	15:27	For "God has put all things in subjection under his feet." But when it says, "all things are put in subjection," it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in subjection under him.
1 Corinthians	15:28	When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all things in subjection under him, that God may be all in all.
1 Corinthians	15:29	Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?
1 Corinthians	15:30	Why am I in danger every hour?
1 Corinthians	15:31	I protest, brothers, by my pride in you, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die every day!
1 Corinthians	15:32	What do I gain if, humanly speaking, I fought with beasts at Ephesus? If the dead are not raised, "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die."
1 Corinthians	15:33	Do not be deceived: "Bad company ruins good morals."
1 Corinthians	15:34	Wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, and do not go on sinning. For some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame.
1 Corinthians	15:35	But someone will ask, "How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?"
1 Corinthians	15:36	You foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.
1 Corinthians	15:37	And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain.
1 Corinthians	15:38	But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body.
1 Corinthians	15:39	For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish.
1 Corinthians	15:40	There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the glory of the earthly is of another.
1 Corinthians	15:41	There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
1 Corinthians	15:42	So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable.
1 Corinthians	15:43	It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.
1 Corinthians	15:44	It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
1 Corinthians	15:45	Thus it is written, "The first man Adam became a living being"; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit.
1 Corinthians	15:46	But it is not the spiritual that is first but the natural, and then the spiritual.
1 Corinthians	15:47	The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second man is from heaven.
1 Corinthians	15:48	As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven.
1 Corinthians	15:49	Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.
1 Corinthians	15:50	I tell you this, brothers: flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable.
1 Corinthians	15:51	Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
1 Corinthians	15:52	in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.
1 Corinthians	15:53	For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.
1 Corinthians	15:54	When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: "Death is swallowed up in victory."
1 Corinthians	15:55	"O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?"
1 Corinthians	15:56	The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1 Corinthians	15:57	But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians	15:58	Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.
1 Corinthians	16:1	Now concerning the collection for the saints: as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to do.
1 Corinthians	16:2	On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come.
1 Corinthians	16:3	And when I arrive, I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
1 Corinthians	16:4	If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.
1 Corinthians	16:5	I will visit you after passing through Macedonia, for I intend to pass through Macedonia,
1 Corinthians	16:6	and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may help me on my journey, wherever I go.
1 Corinthians	16:7	For I do not want to see you now just in passing. I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits.
1 Corinthians	16:8	But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
1 Corinthians	16:9	for a wide door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
1 Corinthians	16:10	When Timothy comes, see that you put him at ease among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord, as I am.
1 Corinthians	16:11	So let no one despise him. Help him on his way in peace, that he may return to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers.
1 Corinthians	16:12	Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to visit you with the other brothers, but it was not at all his will to come now. He will come when he has opportunity.
1 Corinthians	16:13	Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
1 Corinthians	16:14	Let all that you do be done in love.
1 Corinthians	16:15	Now I urge you, brothers--you know that the household of Stephanas were the first converts in Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints--
1 Corinthians	16:16	be subject to such as these, and to every fellow worker and laborer.
1 Corinthians	16:17	I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for your absence,
1 Corinthians	16:18	for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. Give recognition to such men.
1 Corinthians	16:19	The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Prisca, together with the church in their house, send you hearty greetings in the Lord.
1 Corinthians	16:20	All the brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1 Corinthians	16:21	I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.
1 Corinthians	16:22	If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord, come!
1 Corinthians	16:23	The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
1 Corinthians	16:24	My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Corinthians	1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,To the church of God that is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
2 Corinthians	1:2	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians	1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,
2 Corinthians	1:4	who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2 Corinthians	1:5	For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.
2 Corinthians	1:6	If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer.
2 Corinthians	1:7	Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort.
2 Corinthians	1:8	For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself.
2 Corinthians	1:9	Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead.
2 Corinthians	1:10	He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again.
2 Corinthians	1:11	You also must help us by prayer, so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many.
2 Corinthians	1:12	For our boast is this: the testimony of our conscience that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.
2 Corinthians	1:13	For we are not writing to you anything other than what you read and acknowledge and I hope you will fully acknowledge--
2 Corinthians	1:14	just as you did partially acknowledge us, that on the day of our Lord Jesus you will boast of us as we will boast of you.
2 Corinthians	1:15	Because I was sure of this, I wanted to come to you first, so that you might have a second experience of grace.
2 Corinthians	1:16	I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia, and to come back to you from Macedonia and have you send me on my way to Judea.
2 Corinthians	1:17	Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh, ready to say "Yes, yes" and "No, no" at the same time?
2 Corinthians	1:18	As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been Yes and No.
2 Corinthians	1:19	For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom we proclaimed among you, Silvanus and Timothy and I, was not Yes and No, but in him it is always Yes.
2 Corinthians	1:20	For all the promises of God find their Yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory.
2 Corinthians	1:21	And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us,
2 Corinthians	1:22	and who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
2 Corinthians	1:23	But I call God to witness against me--it was to spare you that I refrained from coming again to Corinth.
2 Corinthians	1:24	Not that we lord it over your faith, but we work with you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith.
2 Corinthians	2:1	For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you.
2 Corinthians	2:2	For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
2 Corinthians	2:3	And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice, for I felt sure of all of you, that my joy would be the joy of you all.
2 Corinthians	2:4	For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
2 Corinthians	2:5	Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure--not to put it too severely--to all of you.
2 Corinthians	2:6	For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough,
2 Corinthians	2:7	so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
2 Corinthians	2:8	So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
2 Corinthians	2:9	For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything.
2 Corinthians	2:10	Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ,
2 Corinthians	2:11	so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.
2 Corinthians	2:12	When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ, even though a door was opened for me in the Lord,
2 Corinthians	2:13	my spirit was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia.
2 Corinthians	2:14	But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.
2 Corinthians	2:15	For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing,
2 Corinthians	2:16	to one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
2 Corinthians	2:17	For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.
2 Corinthians	3:1	Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, as some do, letters of recommendation to you, or from you?
2 Corinthians	3:2	You yourselves are our letter of recommendation, written on our hearts, to be known and read by all.
2 Corinthians	3:3	And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.
2 Corinthians	3:4	Such is the confidence that we have through Christ toward God.
2 Corinthians	3:5	Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us, but our sufficiency is from God,
2 Corinthians	3:6	who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
2 Corinthians	3:7	Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end,
2 Corinthians	3:8	will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory?
2 Corinthians	3:9	For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory.
2 Corinthians	3:10	Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that surpasses it.
2 Corinthians	3:11	For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more will what is permanent have glory.
2 Corinthians	3:12	Since we have such a hope, we are very bold,
2 Corinthians	3:13	not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end.
2 Corinthians	3:14	But their minds were hardened. For to this day, when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away.
2 Corinthians	3:15	Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts.
2 Corinthians	3:16	But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.
2 Corinthians	3:17	Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2 Corinthians	3:18	And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
2 Corinthians	4:1	Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart.
2 Corinthians	4:2	But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians	4:3	And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing.
2 Corinthians	4:4	In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.
2 Corinthians	4:5	For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake.
2 Corinthians	4:6	For God, who said, "Let light shine out of darkness," has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians	4:7	But we have this treasure in jars of clay, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us.
2 Corinthians	4:8	We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair;
2 Corinthians	4:9	persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;
2 Corinthians	4:10	always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.
2 Corinthians	4:11	For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2 Corinthians	4:12	So death is at work in us, but life in you.
2 Corinthians	4:13	Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, "I believed, and so I spoke," we also believe, and so we also speak,
2 Corinthians	4:14	knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence.
2 Corinthians	4:15	For it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people it may increase thanksgiving, to the glory of God.
2 Corinthians	4:16	So we do not lose heart. Though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day.
2 Corinthians	4:17	For this slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison,
2 Corinthians	4:18	as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.
2 Corinthians	5:1	For we know that if the tent, which is our earthly home, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2 Corinthians	5:2	For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling,
2 Corinthians	5:3	if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked.
2 Corinthians	5:4	For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened--not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
2 Corinthians	5:5	He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee.
2 Corinthians	5:6	So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord,
2 Corinthians	5:7	for we walk by faith, not by sight.
2 Corinthians	5:8	Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.
2 Corinthians	5:9	So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him.
2 Corinthians	5:10	For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.
2 Corinthians	5:11	Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known also to your conscience.
2 Corinthians	5:12	We are not commending ourselves to you again but giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.
2 Corinthians	5:13	For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you.
2 Corinthians	5:14	For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died;
2 Corinthians	5:15	and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.
2 Corinthians	5:16	From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
2 Corinthians	5:17	Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.
2 Corinthians	5:18	All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;
2 Corinthians	5:19	that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians	5:20	Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.
2 Corinthians	5:21	For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
2 Corinthians	6:1	Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
2 Corinthians	6:2	For he says, "In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you."Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2 Corinthians	6:3	We put no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
2 Corinthians	6:4	but as servants of God we commend ourselves in every way: by great endurance, in afflictions, hardships, calamities,
2 Corinthians	6:5	beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger;
2 Corinthians	6:6	by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love;
2 Corinthians	6:7	by truthful speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left;
2 Corinthians	6:8	through honor and dishonor, through _dysphemia_ and _euphemia_. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true;
2 Corinthians	6:9	as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and yet not killed;
2 Corinthians	6:10	as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything.
2 Corinthians	6:11	We have spoken freely to you, Corinthians; our heart is wide open.
2 Corinthians	6:12	You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections.
2 Corinthians	6:13	In return (I speak as to children) widen your hearts also.
2 Corinthians	6:14	Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?
2 Corinthians	6:15	What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?
2 Corinthians	6:16	What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, "I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
2 Corinthians	6:17	Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you,
2 Corinthians	6:18	and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty."
2 Corinthians	7:1	Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God.
2 Corinthians	7:2	Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.
2 Corinthians	7:3	I do not say this to condemn you, for I said before that you are in our hearts, to die together and to live together.
2 Corinthians	7:4	I am acting with great boldness toward you; I have great pride in you; I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy.
2 Corinthians	7:5	For even when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were afflicted at every turn--fighting without and fear within.
2 Corinthians	7:6	But God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus,
2 Corinthians	7:7	and not only by his coming but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you, as he told us of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced still more.
2 Corinthians	7:8	For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it--though I did regret it, for I see that that letter grieved you, though only for a while.
2 Corinthians	7:9	As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us.
2 Corinthians	7:10	For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death.
2 Corinthians	7:11	For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter.
2 Corinthians	7:12	So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered the wrong, but in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians	7:13	Therefore we are comforted.And besides our own comfort, we rejoiced still more at the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all.
2 Corinthians	7:14	For whatever boasts I made to him about you, I was not put to shame. But just as everything we said to you was true, so also our boasting before Titus has proved true.
2 Corinthians	7:15	And his affection for you is even greater, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
2 Corinthians	7:16	I rejoice, because I have perfect confidence in you.
2 Corinthians	8:1	We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia,
2 Corinthians	8:2	for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part.
2 Corinthians	8:3	For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own free will,
2 Corinthians	8:4	begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints--
2 Corinthians	8:5	and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us.
2 Corinthians	8:6	Accordingly, we urged Titus that as he had started, so he should complete among you this act of grace.
2 Corinthians	8:7	But as you excel in everything--in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for you--see that you excel in this act of grace also.
2 Corinthians	8:8	I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine.
2 Corinthians	8:9	For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich.
2 Corinthians	8:10	And in this matter I give my judgment: this benefits you, who a year ago started not only to do this work but also to desire to do it.
2 Corinthians	8:11	So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have.
2 Corinthians	8:12	For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have.
2 Corinthians	8:13	I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness
2 Corinthians	8:14	your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness.
2 Corinthians	8:15	As it is written, "Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack."
2 Corinthians	8:16	But thanks be to God, who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you.
2 Corinthians	8:17	For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest he is going to you of his own accord.
2 Corinthians	8:18	With him we are sending the brother who is famous among all the churches for his preaching of the gospel.
2 Corinthians	8:19	And not only that, but he has been appointed by the churches to travel with us as we carry out this act of grace that is being ministered by us, for the glory of the Lord himself and to show our good will.
2 Corinthians	8:20	We take this course so that no one should blame us about this generous gift that is being administered by us,
2 Corinthians	8:21	for we aim at what is honorable not only in the Lord's sight but also in the sight of man.
2 Corinthians	8:22	And with them we are sending our brother whom we have often tested and found earnest in many matters, but who is now more earnest than ever because of his great confidence in you.
2 Corinthians	8:23	As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for your benefit. And as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.
2 Corinthians	8:24	So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men.
2 Corinthians	9:1	Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints,
2 Corinthians	9:2	for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them.
2 Corinthians	9:3	But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove vain in this matter, so that you may be ready, as I said you would be.
2 Corinthians	9:4	Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated--to say nothing of you--for being so confident.
2 Corinthians	9:5	So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction.
2 Corinthians	9:6	The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
2 Corinthians	9:7	Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
2 Corinthians	9:8	And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.
2 Corinthians	9:9	As it is written, "He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever."
2 Corinthians	9:10	He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness.
2 Corinthians	9:11	You will be enriched in every way for all your generosity, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God.
2 Corinthians	9:12	For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.
2 Corinthians	9:13	By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others,
2 Corinthians	9:14	while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
2 Corinthians	9:15	Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!
2 Corinthians	10:1	I, Paul, myself entreat you, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ--I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away!--
2 Corinthians	10:2	I beg of you that when I am present I may not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians	10:3	For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians	10:4	For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds.
2 Corinthians	10:5	We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ,
2 Corinthians	10:6	being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete.
2 Corinthians	10:7	Look at what is before your eyes. If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him remind himself that just as he is Christ's, so also are we.
2 Corinthians	10:8	For even if I boast a little too much of our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I will not be ashamed.
2 Corinthians	10:9	I do not want to appear to be frightening you with my letters.
2 Corinthians	10:10	For they say, "His letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech of no account."
2 Corinthians	10:11	Let such a person understand that what we say by letter when absent, we do when present.
2 Corinthians	10:12	Not that we dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who are commending themselves. But when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another, they are without understanding.
2 Corinthians	10:13	But we will not boast beyond limits, but will boast only with regard to the area of influence God assigned to us, to reach even to you.
2 Corinthians	10:14	For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we did not reach you. We were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of Christ.
2 Corinthians	10:15	We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others. But our hope is that as your faith increases, our area of influence among you may be greatly enlarged,
2 Corinthians	10:16	so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you, without boasting of work already done in another's area of influence.
2 Corinthians	10:17	"Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord."
2 Corinthians	10:18	For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.
2 Corinthians	11:1	I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me!
2 Corinthians	11:2	I feel a divine jealousy for you, for I betrothed you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
2 Corinthians	11:3	But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
2 Corinthians	11:4	For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received, or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough.
2 Corinthians	11:5	I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super-apostles.
2 Corinthians	11:6	Even if I am unskilled in speaking, I am not so in knowledge; indeed, in every way we have made this plain to you in all things.
2 Corinthians	11:7	Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached God's gospel to you free of charge?
2 Corinthians	11:8	I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you.
2 Corinthians	11:9	And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way.
2 Corinthians	11:10	As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia.
2 Corinthians	11:11	And why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do!
2 Corinthians	11:12	And what I do I will continue to do, in order to undermine the claim of those who would like to claim that in their boasted mission they work on the same terms as we do.
2 Corinthians	11:13	For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ.
2 Corinthians	11:14	And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
2 Corinthians	11:15	So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end will correspond to their deeds.
2 Corinthians	11:16	I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little.
2 Corinthians	11:17	What I am saying with this boastful confidence, I say not with the Lord's authority but as a fool.
2 Corinthians	11:18	Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast.
2 Corinthians	11:19	For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves!
2 Corinthians	11:20	For you bear it if someone makes slaves of you, or devours you, or takes advantage of you, or puts on airs, or strikes you in the face.
2 Corinthians	11:21	To my shame, I must say, we were too weak for that!But whatever anyone else dares to boast of--I am speaking as a fool--I also dare to boast of that.
2 Corinthians	11:22	Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I.
2 Corinthians	11:23	Are they servants of Christ? I am a better one--I am talking like a madman--with far greater labors, far more imprisonments, with countless beatings, and often near death.
2 Corinthians	11:24	Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one.
2 Corinthians	11:25	Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked; a night and a day I was adrift at sea;
2 Corinthians	11:26	on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers;
2 Corinthians	11:27	in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure.
2 Corinthians	11:28	And, apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches.
2 Corinthians	11:29	Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is made to fall, and I am not indignant?
2 Corinthians	11:30	If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness.
2 Corinthians	11:31	The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
2 Corinthians	11:32	At Damascus, the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me,
2 Corinthians	11:33	but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands.
2 Corinthians	12:1	I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2 Corinthians	12:2	I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven--whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows.
2 Corinthians	12:3	And I know that this man was caught up into paradise--whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows--
2 Corinthians	12:4	and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter.
2 Corinthians	12:5	On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses.
2 Corinthians	12:6	Though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain from it, so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me.
2 Corinthians	12:7	So to keep me from being too elated by the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from being too elated.
2 Corinthians	12:8	Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me.
2 Corinthians	12:9	But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
2 Corinthians	12:10	For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
2 Corinthians	12:11	I have been a fool! You forced me to it, for I ought to have been commended by you. For I was not at all inferior to these super-apostles, even though I am nothing.
2 Corinthians	12:12	The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works.
2 Corinthians	12:13	For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong!
2 Corinthians	12:14	Here for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be a burden, for I seek not what is yours but you. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.
2 Corinthians	12:15	I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less?
2 Corinthians	12:16	But granting that I myself did not burden you, I was crafty, you say, and got the better of you by deceit.
2 Corinthians	12:17	Did I take advantage of you through any of those whom I sent to you?
2 Corinthians	12:18	I urged Titus to go, and sent the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not act in the same spirit? Did we not take the same steps?
2 Corinthians	12:19	Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? It is in the sight of God that we have been speaking in Christ, and all for your upbuilding, beloved.
2 Corinthians	12:20	For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish--that perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder.
2 Corinthians	12:21	I fear that when I come again my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality that they have practiced.
2 Corinthians	13:1	This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
2 Corinthians	13:2	I warned those who sinned before and all the others, and I warn them now while absent, as I did when present on my second visit, that if I come again I will not spare them--
2 Corinthians	13:3	since you seek proof that Christ is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you, but is powerful among you.
2 Corinthians	13:4	For he was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but in dealing with you we will live with him by the power of God.
2 Corinthians	13:5	Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do you not realize this about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you?--unless indeed you fail to meet the test!
2 Corinthians	13:6	I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test.
2 Corinthians	13:7	But we pray to God that you may not do wrong--not that we may appear to have met the test, but that you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed.
2 Corinthians	13:8	For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.
2 Corinthians	13:9	For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. Your restoration is what we pray for.
2 Corinthians	13:10	For this reason I write these things while I am away from you, that when I come I may not have to be severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
2 Corinthians	13:11	Finally, brothers, rejoice. Aim for restoration, comfort one another, agree with one another, live in peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
2 Corinthians	13:12	Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2 Corinthians	13:13	All the saints greet you.
2 Corinthians	13:14	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Galatians	1:1	Paul, an apostle--not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead--
Galatians	1:2	and all the brothers who are with me,To the churches of Galatia:
Galatians	1:3	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Galatians	1:4	who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
Galatians	1:5	to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Galatians	1:6	I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel--
Galatians	1:7	not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ.
Galatians	1:8	But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.
Galatians	1:9	As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.
Galatians	1:10	For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ.
Galatians	1:11	For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel.
Galatians	1:12	For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
Galatians	1:13	For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it.
Galatians	1:14	And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers.
Galatians	1:15	But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace,
Galatians	1:16	was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with anyone;
Galatians	1:17	nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
Galatians	1:18	Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days.
Galatians	1:19	But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother.
Galatians	1:20	(In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!)
Galatians	1:21	Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Galatians	1:22	And I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ.
Galatians	1:23	They only were hearing it said, "He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy."
Galatians	1:24	And they glorified God because of me.
Galatians	2:1	Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me.
Galatians	2:2	I went up because of a revelation and set before them (though privately before those who seemed influential) the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to make sure I was not running or had not run in vain.
Galatians	2:3	But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek.
Galatians	2:4	Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in--who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into slavery--
Galatians	2:5	to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you.
Galatians	2:6	And from those who seemed to be influential (what they were makes no difference to me; God shows no partiality)--those, I say, who seemed influential added nothing to me.
Galatians	2:7	On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised
Galatians	2:8	(for he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles),
Galatians	2:9	and when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised.
Galatians	2:10	Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do.
Galatians	2:11	But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned.
Galatians	2:12	For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles; but when they came he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party.
Galatians	2:13	And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy.
Galatians	2:14	But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, "If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews?"
Galatians	2:15	We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners;
Galatians	2:16	yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.
Galatians	2:17	But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
Galatians	2:18	For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
Galatians	2:19	For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God.
Galatians	2:20	I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
Galatians	2:21	I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.
Galatians	3:1	O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified.
Galatians	3:2	Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith?
Galatians	3:3	Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
Galatians	3:4	Did you suffer so many things in vain--if indeed it was in vain?
Galatians	3:5	Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law, or by hearing with faith--
Galatians	3:6	just as Abraham "believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness"?
Galatians	3:7	Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham.
Galatians	3:8	And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, "In you shall all the nations be blessed."
Galatians	3:9	So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.
Galatians	3:10	For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, "Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them."
Galatians	3:11	Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for "The righteous shall live by faith."
Galatians	3:12	But the law is not of faith, rather "The one who does them shall live by them."
Galatians	3:13	Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us--for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree"--
Galatians	3:14	so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.
Galatians	3:15	To give a human example, brothers: even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified.
Galatians	3:16	Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, "And to offsprings," referring to many, but referring to one, "And to your offspring," who is Christ.
Galatians	3:17	This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise void.
Galatians	3:18	For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by a promise.
Galatians	3:19	Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made, and it was put in place through angels by an intermediary.
Galatians	3:20	Now an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one.
Galatians	3:21	Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.
Galatians	3:22	But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
Galatians	3:23	Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed.
Galatians	3:24	So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith.
Galatians	3:25	But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian,
Galatians	3:26	for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.
Galatians	3:27	For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
Galatians	3:28	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Galatians	3:29	And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise.
Galatians	4:1	I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything,
Galatians	4:2	but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father.
Galatians	4:3	In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world.
Galatians	4:4	But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,
Galatians	4:5	to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.
Galatians	4:6	And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, "Abba! Father!"
Galatians	4:7	So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.
Galatians	4:8	Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods.
Galatians	4:9	But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more?
Galatians	4:10	You observe days and months and seasons and years!
Galatians	4:11	I am afraid I may have labored over you in vain.
Galatians	4:12	Brothers, I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong.
Galatians	4:13	You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first,
Galatians	4:14	and though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
Galatians	4:15	What then has become of the blessing you felt? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me.
Galatians	4:16	Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth?
Galatians	4:17	They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make much of them.
Galatians	4:18	It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose, and not only when I am present with you,
Galatians	4:19	my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!
Galatians	4:20	I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you.
Galatians	4:21	Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law?
Galatians	4:22	For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman.
Galatians	4:23	But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise.
Galatians	4:24	Now this may be interpreted allegorically: these women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery; she is Hagar.
Galatians	4:25	Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia; she corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children.
Galatians	4:26	But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.
Galatians	4:27	For it is written, "Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband."
Galatians	4:28	Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
Galatians	4:29	But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
Galatians	4:30	But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman."
Galatians	4:31	So, brothers, we are not children of the slave but of the free woman.
Galatians	5:1	For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.
Galatians	5:2	Look: I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you.
Galatians	5:3	I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law.
Galatians	5:4	You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.
Galatians	5:5	For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness.
Galatians	5:6	For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love.
Galatians	5:7	You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth?
Galatians	5:8	This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
Galatians	5:9	A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
Galatians	5:10	I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is.
Galatians	5:11	But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been removed.
Galatians	5:12	I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves!
Galatians	5:13	For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
Galatians	5:14	For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
Galatians	5:15	But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another.
Galatians	5:16	But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.
Galatians	5:17	For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
Galatians	5:18	But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Galatians	5:19	Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality,
Galatians	5:20	idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions,
Galatians	5:21	envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Galatians	5:22	But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
Galatians	5:23	gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Galatians	5:24	And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Galatians	5:25	If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Galatians	5:26	Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.
Galatians	6:1	Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.
Galatians	6:2	Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
Galatians	6:3	For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
Galatians	6:4	But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor.
Galatians	6:5	For each will have to bear his own load.
Galatians	6:6	One who is taught the word must share all good things with the one who teaches.
Galatians	6:7	Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap.
Galatians	6:8	For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
Galatians	6:9	And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up.
Galatians	6:10	So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.
Galatians	6:11	See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand.
Galatians	6:12	It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
Galatians	6:13	For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
Galatians	6:14	But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
Galatians	6:15	For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
Galatians	6:16	And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.
Galatians	6:17	From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus.
Galatians	6:18	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
Ephesians	1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God,To the saints who are in Ephesus, and are faithful in Christ Jesus:
Ephesians	1:2	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians	1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places,
Ephesians	1:4	even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love
Ephesians	1:5	he predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,
Ephesians	1:6	to _epainon doxys_ of his grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.
Ephesians	1:7	In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,
Ephesians	1:8	which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight
Ephesians	1:9	making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ
Ephesians	1:10	as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.
Ephesians	1:11	In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,
Ephesians	1:12	so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the _epainon doxys_.
Ephesians	1:13	In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit,
Ephesians	1:14	who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the _epainon tys doxys autou_.
Ephesians	1:15	For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints,
Ephesians	1:16	I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers,
Ephesians	1:17	that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him,
Ephesians	1:18	having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,
Ephesians	1:19	and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might
Ephesians	1:20	that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,
Ephesians	1:21	far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come.
Ephesians	1:22	And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church,
Ephesians	1:23	which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
Ephesians	2:1	And you were dead in the trespasses and sins
Ephesians	2:2	in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience--
Ephesians	2:3	among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.
Ephesians	2:4	But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us,
Ephesians	2:5	even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ--by grace you have been saved--
Ephesians	2:6	and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
Ephesians	2:7	so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
Ephesians	2:8	For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,
Ephesians	2:9	not a result of works, so that no one may boast.
Ephesians	2:10	For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.
Ephesians	2:11	Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called "the uncircumcision" by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands--
Ephesians	2:12	remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
Ephesians	2:13	But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.
Ephesians	2:14	For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility
Ephesians	2:15	by abolishing the law of commandments and ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace,
Ephesians	2:16	and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.
Ephesians	2:17	And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near.
Ephesians	2:18	For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.
Ephesians	2:19	So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
Ephesians	2:20	built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone,
Ephesians	2:21	in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord.
Ephesians	2:22	In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.
Ephesians	3:1	For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles--
Ephesians	3:2	assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you,
Ephesians	3:3	how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly.
Ephesians	3:4	When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ,
Ephesians	3:5	which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit.
Ephesians	3:6	This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
Ephesians	3:7	Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power.
Ephesians	3:8	To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ,
Ephesians	3:9	and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things,
Ephesians	3:10	so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places.
Ephesians	3:11	This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,
Ephesians	3:12	in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him.
Ephesians	3:13	So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory.
Ephesians	3:14	For this reason I bow my knees before the Father,
Ephesians	3:15	from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,
Ephesians	3:16	that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being,
Ephesians	3:17	so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith--that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
Ephesians	3:18	may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth,
Ephesians	3:19	and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
Ephesians	3:20	Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us,
Ephesians	3:21	to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
Ephesians	4:1	I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called,
Ephesians	4:2	with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love,
Ephesians	4:3	eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Ephesians	4:4	There is one body and one Spirit--just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call--
Ephesians	4:5	one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
Ephesians	4:6	one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
Ephesians	4:7	But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift.
Ephesians	4:8	Therefore it says, "When he ascended on high he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men."
Ephesians	4:9	(In saying, "He ascended," what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower parts of the earth?
Ephesians	4:10	He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.)
Ephesians	4:11	And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors and teachers,
Ephesians	4:12	to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,
Ephesians	4:13	until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
Ephesians	4:14	so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes.
Ephesians	4:15	Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ,
Ephesians	4:16	from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.
Ephesians	4:17	Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds.
Ephesians	4:18	They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart.
Ephesians	4:19	They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity.
Ephesians	4:20	But that is not the way you learned Christ!--
Ephesians	4:21	assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus,
Ephesians	4:22	to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires,
Ephesians	4:23	and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds,
Ephesians	4:24	and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.
Ephesians	4:25	Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
Ephesians	4:26	Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger,
Ephesians	4:27	and give no opportunity to the devil.
Ephesians	4:28	Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need.
Ephesians	4:29	Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear.
Ephesians	4:30	And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Ephesians	4:31	Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice.
Ephesians	4:32	Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.
Ephesians	5:1	Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
Ephesians	5:2	And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
Ephesians	5:3	But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints.
Ephesians	5:4	Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving.
Ephesians	5:5	For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Ephesians	5:6	Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
Ephesians	5:7	Therefore do not associate with them;
Ephesians	5:8	for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light
Ephesians	5:9	(for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),
Ephesians	5:10	and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.
Ephesians	5:11	Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them.
Ephesians	5:12	For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret.
Ephesians	5:13	But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible,
Ephesians	5:14	for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, "Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you."
Ephesians	5:15	Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise,
Ephesians	5:16	making the best use of the time, because the days are evil.
Ephesians	5:17	Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
Ephesians	5:18	And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit,
Ephesians	5:19	addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with all your heart,
Ephesians	5:20	giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Ephesians	5:21	submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.
Ephesians	5:22	Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
Ephesians	5:23	For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.
Ephesians	5:24	Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.
Ephesians	5:25	Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,
Ephesians	5:26	that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,
Ephesians	5:27	so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish.
Ephesians	5:28	In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Ephesians	5:29	For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church,
Ephesians	5:30	because we are members of his body.
Ephesians	5:31	"Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh."
Ephesians	5:32	This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.
Ephesians	5:33	However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband.
Ephesians	6:1	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Ephesians	6:2	"Honor your father and mother" (this is the first commandment with a promise),
Ephesians	6:3	"that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land."
Ephesians	6:4	Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Ephesians	6:5	Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ,
Ephesians	6:6	not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
Ephesians	6:7	rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man,
Ephesians	6:8	knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free.
Ephesians	6:9	Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.
Ephesians	6:10	Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.
Ephesians	6:11	Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.
Ephesians	6:12	For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.
Ephesians	6:13	Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm.
Ephesians	6:14	Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
Ephesians	6:15	and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.
Ephesians	6:16	In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one;
Ephesians	6:17	and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
Ephesians	6:18	praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,
Ephesians	6:19	and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel,
Ephesians	6:20	for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.
Ephesians	6:21	So that you also may know how I am and what I am doing, Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything.
Ephesians	6:22	I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts.
Ephesians	6:23	Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians	6:24	Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible.
Philippians	1:1	Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus,To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
Philippians	1:2	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philippians	1:3	I thank my God in all my remembrance of you,
Philippians	1:4	always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy,
Philippians	1:5	because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now.
Philippians	1:6	And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.
Philippians	1:7	It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel.
Philippians	1:8	For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus.
Philippians	1:9	And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment,
Philippians	1:10	so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ,
Philippians	1:11	filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the _doxan kai epainon_ of God.
Philippians	1:12	I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel,
Philippians	1:13	so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ.
Philippians	1:14	And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Philippians	1:15	Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
Philippians	1:16	The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.
Philippians	1:17	The former proclaim Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.
Philippians	1:18	What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice,
Philippians	1:19	for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my deliverance,
Philippians	1:20	as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.
Philippians	1:21	For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Philippians	1:22	If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.
Philippians	1:23	I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.
Philippians	1:24	But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
Philippians	1:25	Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith,
Philippians	1:26	so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus, because of my coming to you again.
Philippians	1:27	Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel,
Philippians	1:28	and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God.
Philippians	1:29	For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake,
Philippians	1:30	engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and now hear that I still have.
Philippians	2:1	So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy,
Philippians	2:2	complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind.
Philippians	2:3	Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves.
Philippians	2:4	Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.
Philippians	2:5	Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus,
Philippians	2:6	who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,
Philippians	2:7	but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.
Philippians	2:8	And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.
Philippians	2:9	Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name,
Philippians	2:10	so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
Philippians	2:11	and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Philippians	2:12	Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
Philippians	2:13	for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.
Philippians	2:14	Do all things without grumbling or questioning,
Philippians	2:15	that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world,
Philippians	2:16	holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.
Philippians	2:17	Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all.
Philippians	2:18	Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me.
Philippians	2:19	I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you.
Philippians	2:20	For I have no one like him, who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare.
Philippians	2:21	They all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
Philippians	2:22	But you know Timothy's proven worth, how as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel.
Philippians	2:23	I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me,
Philippians	2:24	and I trust in the Lord that shortly I myself will come also.
Philippians	2:25	I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need,
Philippians	2:26	for he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill.
Philippians	2:27	Indeed he was ill, near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Philippians	2:28	I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious.
Philippians	2:29	So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men,
Philippians	2:30	for he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me.
Philippians	3:1	Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you.
Philippians	3:2	Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh.
Philippians	3:3	For we are the real circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh--
Philippians	3:4	though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more:
Philippians	3:5	circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
Philippians	3:6	as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness, under the law blameless.
Philippians	3:7	But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ.
Philippians	3:8	Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ
Philippians	3:9	and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith--
Philippians	3:10	that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,
Philippians	3:11	that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
Philippians	3:12	Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
Philippians	3:13	Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead,
Philippians	3:14	I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
Philippians	3:15	Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you.
Philippians	3:16	Only let us hold true to what we have attained.
Philippians	3:17	Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us.
Philippians	3:18	For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ.
Philippians	3:19	Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things.
Philippians	3:20	But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Philippians	3:21	who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.
Philippians	4:1	Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved.
Philippians	4:2	I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord.
Philippians	4:3	Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women, who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Philippians	4:4	Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice.
Philippians	4:5	Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand;
Philippians	4:6	do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.
Philippians	4:7	And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
Philippians	4:8	Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of _epainos_, think about these things.
Philippians	4:9	What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me--practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
Philippians	4:10	I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity.
Philippians	4:11	Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.
Philippians	4:12	I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.
Philippians	4:13	I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
Philippians	4:14	Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble.
Philippians	4:15	And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only.
Philippians	4:16	Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again.
Philippians	4:17	Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit.
Philippians	4:18	I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.
Philippians	4:19	And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Philippians	4:20	To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Philippians	4:21	Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
Philippians	4:22	All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household.
Philippians	4:23	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Colossians	1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,
Colossians	1:2	To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae:Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
Colossians	1:3	We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you,
Colossians	1:4	since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints,
Colossians	1:5	because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel,
Colossians	1:6	which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and growing--as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth,
Colossians	1:7	just as you learned it from Epaphras our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf
Colossians	1:8	and has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
Colossians	1:9	And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
Colossians	1:10	so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God.
Colossians	1:11	May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy,
Colossians	1:12	giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light.
Colossians	1:13	He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,
Colossians	1:14	in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
Colossians	1:15	He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
Colossians	1:16	For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities--all things were created through him and for him.
Colossians	1:17	And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together.
Colossians	1:18	And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.
Colossians	1:19	For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell,
Colossians	1:20	and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross.
Colossians	1:21	And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds,
Colossians	1:22	he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,
Colossians	1:23	if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister.
Colossians	1:24	Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church,
Colossians	1:25	of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known,
Colossians	1:26	the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to his saints.
Colossians	1:27	To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
Colossians	1:28	Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ.
Colossians	1:29	For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me.
Colossians	2:1	For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face,
Colossians	2:2	that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ,
Colossians	2:3	in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
Colossians	2:4	I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments.
Colossians	2:5	For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ.
Colossians	2:6	Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him,
Colossians	2:7	rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
Colossians	2:8	See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ.
Colossians	2:9	For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,
Colossians	2:10	and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority.
Colossians	2:11	In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ,
Colossians	2:12	having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.
Colossians	2:13	And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,
Colossians	2:14	by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.
Colossians	2:15	He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.
Colossians	2:16	Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath.
Colossians	2:17	These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.
Colossians	2:18	Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind,
Colossians	2:19	and not holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.
Colossians	2:20	If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations--
Colossians	2:21	"Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch"
Colossians	2:22	(referring to things that all perish as they are used)--according to human precepts and teachings?
Colossians	2:23	These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.
Colossians	3:1	If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
Colossians	3:2	Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
Colossians	3:3	For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
Colossians	3:4	When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.
Colossians	3:5	Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.
Colossians	3:6	On account of these the wrath of God is coming.
Colossians	3:7	In these you too once walked, when you were living in them.
Colossians	3:8	But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.
Colossians	3:9	Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices
Colossians	3:10	and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.
Colossians	3:11	Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all.
Colossians	3:12	Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience,
Colossians	3:13	bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.
Colossians	3:14	And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.
Colossians	3:15	And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful.
Colossians	3:16	Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.
Colossians	3:17	And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Colossians	3:18	Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Colossians	3:19	Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.
Colossians	3:20	Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord.
Colossians	3:21	Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged.
Colossians	3:22	Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.
Colossians	3:23	Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men,
Colossians	3:24	knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.
Colossians	3:25	For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.
Colossians	4:1	Masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Colossians	4:2	Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving.
Colossians	4:3	At the same time, pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison--
Colossians	4:4	that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak.
Colossians	4:5	Conduct yourselves wisely toward outsiders, making the best use of the time.
Colossians	4:6	Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.
Colossians	4:7	Tychicus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord.
Colossians	4:8	I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts,
Colossians	4:9	and with him Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you of everything that has taken place here.
Colossians	4:10	Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you have received instructions--if he comes to you, welcome him),
Colossians	4:11	and Jesus who is called Justus. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me.
Colossians	4:12	Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
Colossians	4:13	For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hierapolis.
Colossians	4:14	Luke the beloved physician greets you, as does Demas.
Colossians	4:15	Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea, and to Nympha and the church in her house.
Colossians	4:16	And when this letter has been read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans; and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
Colossians	4:17	And say to Archippus, "See that you fulfill the ministry that you have received in the Lord."
Colossians	4:18	I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.
1 Thessalonians	1:1	Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy,To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:Grace to you and peace.
1 Thessalonians	1:2	We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers,
1 Thessalonians	1:3	remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians	1:4	For we know, brothers loved by God, that he has chosen you,
1 Thessalonians	1:5	because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake.
1 Thessalonians	1:6	And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit,
1 Thessalonians	1:7	so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1 Thessalonians	1:8	For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything.
1 Thessalonians	1:9	For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God,
1 Thessalonians	1:10	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come.
1 Thessalonians	2:1	For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain.
1 Thessalonians	2:2	But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict.
1 Thessalonians	2:3	For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive,
1 Thessalonians	2:4	but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not to please man, but to please God who tests our hearts.
1 Thessalonians	2:5	For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed--God is witness.
1 Thessalonians	2:6	Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ.
1 Thessalonians	2:7	But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children.
1 Thessalonians	2:8	So, being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us.
1 Thessalonians	2:9	For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil: we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
1 Thessalonians	2:10	You are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers.
1 Thessalonians	2:11	For you know how, like a father with his children,
1 Thessalonians	2:12	we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.
1 Thessalonians	2:13	And we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers.
1 Thessalonians	2:14	For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews,
1 Thessalonians	2:15	who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and displease God and oppose all mankind
1 Thessalonians	2:16	by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved--so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But God's wrath has come upon them at last!
1 Thessalonians	2:17	But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person not in heart, we endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face,
1 Thessalonians	2:18	because we wanted to come to you--I, Paul, again and again--but Satan hindered us.
1 Thessalonians	2:19	For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you?
1 Thessalonians	2:20	For you are our glory and joy.
1 Thessalonians	3:1	Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone,
1 Thessalonians	3:2	and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's coworker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith,
1 Thessalonians	3:3	that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this.
1 Thessalonians	3:4	For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know.
1 Thessalonians	3:5	For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith, for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.
1 Thessalonians	3:6	But now that Timothy has come to us from you, and has brought us the good news of your faith and love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us, as we long to see you--
1 Thessalonians	3:7	for this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction we have been comforted about you through your faith.
1 Thessalonians	3:8	For now we live, if you are standing fast in the Lord.
1 Thessalonians	3:9	For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God,
1 Thessalonians	3:10	as we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith?
1 Thessalonians	3:11	Now may our God and Father himself, and our Lord Jesus, direct our way to you,
1 Thessalonians	3:12	and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you,
1 Thessalonians	3:13	so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
1 Thessalonians	4:1	Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus, that as you received from us how you ought to live and to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more.
1 Thessalonians	4:2	For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
1 Thessalonians	4:3	For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality;
1 Thessalonians	4:4	that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor,
1 Thessalonians	4:5	not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God;
1 Thessalonians	4:6	that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you.
1 Thessalonians	4:7	For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness.
1 Thessalonians	4:8	Therefore whoever disregards this, disregards not man but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you.
1 Thessalonians	4:9	Now concerning brotherly love you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another,
1 Thessalonians	4:10	for that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more,
1 Thessalonians	4:11	and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you,
1 Thessalonians	4:12	so that you may live properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.
1 Thessalonians	4:13	But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope.
1 Thessalonians	4:14	For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.
1 Thessalonians	4:15	For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.
1 Thessalonians	4:16	For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first.
1 Thessalonians	4:17	Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.
1 Thessalonians	4:18	Therefore encourage one another with these words.
1 Thessalonians	5:1	Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you.
1 Thessalonians	5:2	For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
1 Thessalonians	5:3	While people are saying, "There is peace and security," then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.
1 Thessalonians	5:4	But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief.
1 Thessalonians	5:5	For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness.
1 Thessalonians	5:6	So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober.
1 Thessalonians	5:7	For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night.
1 Thessalonians	5:8	But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
1 Thessalonians	5:9	For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Thessalonians	5:10	who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him.
1 Thessalonians	5:11	Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.
1 Thessalonians	5:12	We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you,
1 Thessalonians	5:13	and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
1 Thessalonians	5:14	And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all.
1 Thessalonians	5:15	See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone.
1 Thessalonians	5:16	Rejoice always,
1 Thessalonians	5:17	pray without ceasing,
1 Thessalonians	5:18	give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1 Thessalonians	5:19	Do not quench the Spirit.
1 Thessalonians	5:20	Do not despise prophecies,
1 Thessalonians	5:21	but test everything; hold fast what is good.
1 Thessalonians	5:22	Abstain from every form of evil.
1 Thessalonians	5:23	Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians	5:24	He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.
1 Thessalonians	5:25	Brothers, pray for us.
1 Thessalonians	5:26	Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1 Thessalonians	5:27	I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
1 Thessalonians	5:28	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
2 Thessalonians	1:1	Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy,To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
2 Thessalonians	1:2	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians	1:3	We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing.
2 Thessalonians	1:4	Therefore we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring.
2 Thessalonians	1:5	This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering--
2 Thessalonians	1:6	since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you,
2 Thessalonians	1:7	and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels
2 Thessalonians	1:8	in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
2 Thessalonians	1:9	They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,
2 Thessalonians	1:10	when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed.
2 Thessalonians	1:11	To this end we always pray for you, that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power,
2 Thessalonians	1:12	so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians	2:1	Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers,
2 Thessalonians	2:2	not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.
2 Thessalonians	2:3	Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction,
2 Thessalonians	2:4	who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God.
2 Thessalonians	2:5	Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things?
2 Thessalonians	2:6	And you know what is restraining him now so that he may be revealed in his time.
2 Thessalonians	2:7	For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way.
2 Thessalonians	2:8	And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming.
2 Thessalonians	2:9	The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders,
2 Thessalonians	2:10	and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved.
2 Thessalonians	2:11	Therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false,
2 Thessalonians	2:12	in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
2 Thessalonians	2:13	But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.
2 Thessalonians	2:14	To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians	2:15	So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter.
2 Thessalonians	2:16	Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
2 Thessalonians	2:17	comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.
2 Thessalonians	3:1	Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you,
2 Thessalonians	3:2	and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith.
2 Thessalonians	3:3	But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.
2 Thessalonians	3:4	And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we command.
2 Thessalonians	3:5	May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ.
2 Thessalonians	3:6	Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us.
2 Thessalonians	3:7	For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with you,
2 Thessalonians	3:8	nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you.
2 Thessalonians	3:9	It was not because we do not have that right, but to give you in ourselves an example to imitate.
2 Thessalonians	3:10	For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat.
2 Thessalonians	3:11	For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies.
2 Thessalonians	3:12	Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.
2 Thessalonians	3:13	As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.
2 Thessalonians	3:14	If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed.
2 Thessalonians	3:15	Do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother.
2 Thessalonians	3:16	Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all.
2 Thessalonians	3:17	I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine; it is the way I write.
2 Thessalonians	3:18	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1 Timothy	1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1 Timothy	1:2	To Timothy, my true child in the faith:Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1 Timothy	1:3	As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine,
1 Timothy	1:4	nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith.
1 Timothy	1:5	The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith.
1 Timothy	1:6	Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion,
1 Timothy	1:7	desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions.
1 Timothy	1:8	Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully,
1 Timothy	1:9	understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers,
1 Timothy	1:10	the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,
1 Timothy	1:11	in accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted.
1 Timothy	1:12	I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service,
1 Timothy	1:13	though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief,
1 Timothy	1:14	and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy	1:15	The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost.
1 Timothy	1:16	But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.
1 Timothy	1:17	To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1 Timothy	1:18	This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare,
1 Timothy	1:19	holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith,
1 Timothy	1:20	among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.
1 Timothy	2:1	First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people,
1 Timothy	2:2	for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way.
1 Timothy	2:3	This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior,
1 Timothy	2:4	who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
1 Timothy	2:5	For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
1 Timothy	2:6	who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.
1 Timothy	2:7	For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
1 Timothy	2:8	I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;
1 Timothy	2:9	likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,
1 Timothy	2:10	but with what is proper for women who profess godliness--with good works.
1 Timothy	2:11	Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness.
1 Timothy	2:12	I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.
1 Timothy	2:13	For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
1 Timothy	2:14	and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
1 Timothy	2:15	Yet she will be saved through childbearing--if they continue in faith and love and holiness, with self-control.
1 Timothy	3:1	The saying is trustworthy: If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task.
1 Timothy	3:2	Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach,
1 Timothy	3:3	not a drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money.
1 Timothy	3:4	He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive,
1 Timothy	3:5	for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church?
1 Timothy	3:6	He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil.
1 Timothy	3:7	Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the devil.
1 Timothy	3:8	Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain.
1 Timothy	3:9	They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience.
1 Timothy	3:10	And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless.
1 Timothy	3:11	Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things.
1 Timothy	3:12	Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well.
1 Timothy	3:13	For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy	3:14	I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that,
1 Timothy	3:15	if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of truth.
1 Timothy	3:16	Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness: He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.
1 Timothy	4:1	Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,
1 Timothy	4:2	through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,
1 Timothy	4:3	who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
1 Timothy	4:4	For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,
1 Timothy	4:5	for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.
1 Timothy	4:6	If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed.
1 Timothy	4:7	Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness;
1 Timothy	4:8	for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.
1 Timothy	4:9	The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance.
1 Timothy	4:10	For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe.
1 Timothy	4:11	Command and teach these things.
1 Timothy	4:12	Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
1 Timothy	4:13	Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching.
1 Timothy	4:14	Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you.
1 Timothy	4:15	Practice these things, devote yourself to them, so that all may see your progress.
1 Timothy	4:16	Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers.
1 Timothy	5:1	Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father. Treat younger men like brothers,
1 Timothy	5:2	older women like mothers, younger women like sisters, in all purity.
1 Timothy	5:3	Honor widows who are truly widows.
1 Timothy	5:4	But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.
1 Timothy	5:5	She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day,
1 Timothy	5:6	but she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives.
1 Timothy	5:7	Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach.
1 Timothy	5:8	But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
1 Timothy	5:9	Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband,
1 Timothy	5:10	and having a reputation for good works: if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work.
1 Timothy	5:11	But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry
1 Timothy	5:12	and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith.
1 Timothy	5:13	Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not.
1 Timothy	5:14	So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander.
1 Timothy	5:15	For some have already strayed after Satan.
1 Timothy	5:16	If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are really widows.
1 Timothy	5:17	Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching.
1 Timothy	5:18	For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain," and, "The laborer deserves his wages."
1 Timothy	5:19	Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
1 Timothy	5:20	As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear.
1 Timothy	5:21	In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality.
1 Timothy	5:22	Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.
1 Timothy	5:23	(No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.)
1 Timothy	5:24	The sins of some men are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear later.
1 Timothy	5:25	So also good works are conspicuous, and even those that are not cannot remain hidden.
1 Timothy	6:1	Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled.
1 Timothy	6:2	Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved.Teach and urge these things.
1 Timothy	6:3	If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness,
1 Timothy	6:4	he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions,
1 Timothy	6:5	and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain.
1 Timothy	6:6	Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment,
1 Timothy	6:7	for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world.
1 Timothy	6:8	But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.
1 Timothy	6:9	But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.
1 Timothy	6:10	For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.
1 Timothy	6:11	But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.
1 Timothy	6:12	Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and about which you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
1 Timothy	6:13	I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession,
1 Timothy	6:14	to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Timothy	6:15	which he will display at the proper time--he who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
1 Timothy	6:16	who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
1 Timothy	6:17	As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy.
1 Timothy	6:18	They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share,
1 Timothy	6:19	thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life.
1 Timothy	6:20	O Timothy, guard the deposit entrusted to you. Avoid the irreverent babble and contradictions of what is falsely called "knowledge,"
1 Timothy	6:21	for by professing it some have swerved from the faith.Grace be with you.
2 Timothy	1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy	1:2	To Timothy, my beloved child:Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Timothy	1:3	I thank God whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience, as I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day.
2 Timothy	1:4	As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy.
2 Timothy	1:5	I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you as well.
2 Timothy	1:6	For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands,
2 Timothy	1:7	for God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control.
2 Timothy	1:8	Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God,
2 Timothy	1:9	who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,
2 Timothy	1:10	and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
2 Timothy	1:11	for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher,
2 Timothy	1:12	which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard until that Day what has been entrusted to me.
2 Timothy	1:13	Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy	1:14	By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you.
2 Timothy	1:15	You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
2 Timothy	1:16	May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains,
2 Timothy	1:17	but when he arrived in Rome he searched for me earnestly and found me--
2 Timothy	1:18	may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that Day!--and you well know all the service he rendered at Ephesus.
2 Timothy	2:1	You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy	2:2	and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.
2 Timothy	2:3	Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy	2:4	No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.
2 Timothy	2:5	An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.
2 Timothy	2:6	It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.
2 Timothy	2:7	Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
2 Timothy	2:8	Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel,
2 Timothy	2:9	for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal. But the word of God is not bound!
2 Timothy	2:10	Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2 Timothy	2:11	The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him, we will also live with him;
2 Timothy	2:12	if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;
2 Timothy	2:13	if we are faithless, he remains faithful--for he cannot deny himself.
2 Timothy	2:14	Remind them of these things, and charge them before God not to quarrel about words, which does no good, but only ruins the hearers.
2 Timothy	2:15	Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth.
2 Timothy	2:16	But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness,
2 Timothy	2:17	and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2 Timothy	2:18	who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some.
2 Timothy	2:19	But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: "The Lord knows those who are his," and, "Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity."
2 Timothy	2:20	Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable.
2 Timothy	2:21	Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work.
2 Timothy	2:22	So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
2 Timothy	2:23	Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.
2 Timothy	2:24	And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil,
2 Timothy	2:25	correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth,
2 Timothy	2:26	and they may escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.
2 Timothy	3:1	But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty.
2 Timothy	3:2	For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
2 Timothy	3:3	heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good,
2 Timothy	3:4	treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
2 Timothy	3:5	having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.
2 Timothy	3:6	For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions,
2 Timothy	3:7	always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth.
2 Timothy	3:8	Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the faith.
2 Timothy	3:9	But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of those two men.
2 Timothy	3:10	You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness,
2 Timothy	3:11	my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra--which persecutions I endured; yet from them all the Lord rescued me.
2 Timothy	3:12	Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,
2 Timothy	3:13	while evil people and impostors will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.
2 Timothy	3:14	But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it
2 Timothy	3:15	and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy	3:16	All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
2 Timothy	3:17	that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.
2 Timothy	4:1	I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom:
2 Timothy	4:2	preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching.
2 Timothy	4:3	For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions,
2 Timothy	4:4	and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths.
2 Timothy	4:5	As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.
2 Timothy	4:6	For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come.
2 Timothy	4:7	I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
2 Timothy	4:8	Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that Day, and not only to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
2 Timothy	4:9	Do your best to come to me soon.
2 Timothy	4:10	For Demas, in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
2 Timothy	4:11	Luke alone is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, for he is very useful to me for ministry.
2 Timothy	4:12	Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2 Timothy	4:13	When you come, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas, also the books, and above all the parchments.
2 Timothy	4:14	Alexander the coppersmith did me great harm; the Lord will repay him according to his deeds.
2 Timothy	4:15	Beware of him yourself, for he strongly opposed our message.
2 Timothy	4:16	At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against them!
2 Timothy	4:17	But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. So I was rescued from the lion's mouth.
2 Timothy	4:18	The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
2 Timothy	4:19	Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
2 Timothy	4:20	Erastus remained at Corinth, and I left Trophimus, who was ill, at Miletus.
2 Timothy	4:21	Do your best to come before winter. Eubulus sends greetings to you, as do Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers.
2 Timothy	4:22	The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
Titus	1:1	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness,
Titus	1:2	in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began
Titus	1:3	and at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior;
Titus	1:4	To Titus, my true child in a common faith:Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.
Titus	1:5	This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you--
Titus	1:6	if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination.
Titus	1:7	For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain,
Titus	1:8	but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined.
Titus	1:9	He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.
Titus	1:10	For there are many who are insubordinate, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision party.
Titus	1:11	They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach.
Titus	1:12	One of the Cretans, a prophet of their own, said, "Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons."
Titus	1:13	This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith,
Titus	1:14	not devoting themselves to Jewish myths and the commands of people who turn away from the truth.
Titus	1:15	To the pure, all things are pure, but to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their minds and their consciences are defiled.
Titus	1:16	They profess to know God, but they deny him by their works. They are detestable, disobedient, unfit for any good work.
Titus	2:1	But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine.
Titus	2:2	Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness.
Titus	2:3	Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good,
Titus	2:4	and so train the young women to love their husbands and children,
Titus	2:5	to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled.
Titus	2:6	Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled.
Titus	2:7	Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity,
Titus	2:8	and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
Titus	2:9	Slaves are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative,
Titus	2:10	not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior.
Titus	2:11	For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people,
Titus	2:12	training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
Titus	2:13	waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ,
Titus	2:14	who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.
Titus	2:15	Declare these things; exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one disregard you.
Titus	3:1	Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work,
Titus	3:2	to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people.
Titus	3:3	For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another.
Titus	3:4	But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared,
Titus	3:5	he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,
Titus	3:6	whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
Titus	3:7	so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Titus	3:8	The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people.
Titus	3:9	But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless.
Titus	3:10	As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him,
Titus	3:11	knowing that such a person is warped and sinful; he is self-condemned.
Titus	3:12	When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there.
Titus	3:13	Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way; see that they lack nothing.
Titus	3:14	And let our people learn to devote themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need, and not be unfruitful.
Titus	3:15	All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith.Grace be with you all.
Philemon	1:1	Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother,To Philemon our beloved fellow worker
Philemon	1:2	and Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier, and the church in your house:
Philemon	1:3	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philemon	1:4	I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers,
Philemon	1:5	because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and all the saints,
Philemon	1:6	and I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ.
Philemon	1:7	For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you.
Philemon	1:8	Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required,
Philemon	1:9	yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you--I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus--
Philemon	1:10	I appeal to you for my child, Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment.
Philemon	1:11	(Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me.)
Philemon	1:12	I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart.
Philemon	1:13	I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel,
Philemon	1:14	but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own free will.
Philemon	1:15	For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever,
Philemon	1:16	no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother--especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Philemon	1:17	So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me.
Philemon	1:18	If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account.
Philemon	1:19	I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it--to say nothing of your owing me even your own self.
Philemon	1:20	Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ.
Philemon	1:21	Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
Philemon	1:22	At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
Philemon	1:23	Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you,
Philemon	1:24	and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.
Philemon	1:25	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Hebrews	1:1	Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets,
Hebrews	1:2	but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.
Hebrews	1:3	He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
Hebrews	1:4	having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs.
Hebrews	1:5	For to which of the angels did God ever say, "You are my Son, today I have begotten you"?Or again, "I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son"?
Hebrews	1:6	And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, "Let all God's angels worship him."
Hebrews	1:7	Of the angels he says, "He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire."
Hebrews	1:8	But of the Son he says, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom.
Hebrews	1:9	You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions."
Hebrews	1:10	And, "You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
Hebrews	1:11	they will perish, but you remain; they will all wear out like a garment,
Hebrews	1:12	like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end."
Hebrews	1:13	And to which of the angels has he ever said, "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet"?
Hebrews	1:14	Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?
Hebrews	2:1	Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it.
Hebrews	2:2	For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution,
Hebrews	2:3	how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,
Hebrews	2:4	while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will.
Hebrews	2:5	Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.
Hebrews	2:6	It has been testified somewhere, "What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him?
Hebrews	2:7	You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor,
Hebrews	2:8	putting everything in subjection under his feet."Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
Hebrews	2:9	But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.
Hebrews	2:10	For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering.
Hebrews	2:11	For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
Hebrews	2:12	saying, "I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing your _hymnysu_."
Hebrews	2:13	And again, "I will put my trust in him."And again, "Behold, I and the children God has given me."
Hebrews	2:14	Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,
Hebrews	2:15	and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery.
Hebrews	2:16	For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham.
Hebrews	2:17	Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
Hebrews	2:18	For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.
Hebrews	3:1	Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession,
Hebrews	3:2	who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house.
Hebrews	3:3	For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses--as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself.
Hebrews	3:4	(For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.)
Hebrews	3:5	Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later,
Hebrews	3:6	but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope.
Hebrews	3:7	Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, "Today, if you hear his voice,
Hebrews	3:8	do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness,
Hebrews	3:9	where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works
Hebrews	3:10	for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said, 'They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways.'
Hebrews	3:11	As I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter my rest.'"
Hebrews	3:12	Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.
Hebrews	3:13	But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called "today," that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
Hebrews	3:14	For we share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
Hebrews	3:15	As it is said, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion."
Hebrews	3:16	For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses?
Hebrews	3:17	And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
Hebrews	3:18	And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
Hebrews	3:19	So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief.
Hebrews	4:1	Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it.
Hebrews	4:2	For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened.
Hebrews	4:3	For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, "As I swore in my wrath, 'They shall not enter my rest,'"although his works were finished from the foundation of the world.
Hebrews	4:4	For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works."
Hebrews	4:5	And again in this passage he said, "They shall not enter my rest."
Hebrews	4:6	Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience,
Hebrews	4:7	again he appoints a certain day, "Today," saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts."
Hebrews	4:8	For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on.
Hebrews	4:9	So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God,
Hebrews	4:10	for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.
Hebrews	4:11	Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
Hebrews	4:12	For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Hebrews	4:13	And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account.
Hebrews	4:14	Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
Hebrews	4:15	For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.
Hebrews	4:16	Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
Hebrews	5:1	For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins.
Hebrews	5:2	He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness.
Hebrews	5:3	Because of this he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins just as he does for those of the people.
Hebrews	5:4	And no one takes this honor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was.
Hebrews	5:5	So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him, "You are my Son, today I have begotten you";
Hebrews	5:6	as he says also in another place, "You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek."
Hebrews	5:7	In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence.
Hebrews	5:8	Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered.
Hebrews	5:9	And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,
Hebrews	5:10	being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
Hebrews	5:11	About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing.
Hebrews	5:12	For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food,
Hebrews	5:13	for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child.
Hebrews	5:14	But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil.
Hebrews	6:1	Therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God,
Hebrews	6:2	and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.
Hebrews	6:3	And this we will do if God permits.
Hebrews	6:4	For it is impossible to restore again to repentance those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit,
Hebrews	6:5	and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come,
Hebrews	6:6	if they then fall away, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.
Hebrews	6:7	For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it, and produces a crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God.
Hebrews	6:8	But if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to being cursed, and its end is to be burned.
Hebrews	6:9	Though we speak in this way, yet in your case, beloved, we feel sure of better things--things that belong to salvation.
Hebrews	6:10	For God is not so unjust as to overlook your work and the love that you showed for his sake in serving the saints, as you still do.
Hebrews	6:11	And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end,
Hebrews	6:12	so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
Hebrews	6:13	For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself,
Hebrews	6:14	saying, "Surely I will bless you and multiply you."
Hebrews	6:15	And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.
Hebrews	6:16	For people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation.
Hebrews	6:17	So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath,
Hebrews	6:18	so that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.
Hebrews	6:19	We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain,
Hebrews	6:20	where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
Hebrews	7:1	For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Hebrews	7:2	and to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is first, by translation of his name, king of righteousness, and then he is also king of Salem, that is, king of peace.
Hebrews	7:3	He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling the Son of God he continues a priest forever.
Hebrews	7:4	See how great this man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils!
Hebrews	7:5	And those descendants of Levi who receive the priestly office have a commandment in the law to take tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers, though these also are descended from Abraham.
Hebrews	7:6	But this man who does not have his descent from them received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises.
Hebrews	7:7	It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior.
Hebrews	7:8	In the one case tithes are received by mortal men, but in the other case, by one of whom it is testified that he lives.
Hebrews	7:9	One might even say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham,
Hebrews	7:10	for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him.
Hebrews	7:11	Now if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people received the law), what further need would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, rather than one named after the order of Aaron?
Hebrews	7:12	For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well.
Hebrews	7:13	For the one of whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar.
Hebrews	7:14	For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing about priests.
Hebrews	7:15	This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek,
Hebrews	7:16	who has become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life.
Hebrews	7:17	For it is witnessed of him, "You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek."
Hebrews	7:18	On the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness
Hebrews	7:19	(for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God.
Hebrews	7:20	And it was not without an oath. For those who formerly became priests were made such without an oath,
Hebrews	7:21	but this one was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him: "The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, 'You are a priest forever.'"
Hebrews	7:22	This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant.
Hebrews	7:23	The former priests were many in number, because they were prevented by death from continuing in office,
Hebrews	7:24	but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever.
Hebrews	7:25	Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.
Hebrews	7:26	For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens.
Hebrews	7:27	He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
Hebrews	7:28	For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests, but the word of the oath, which came later than the law, appoints a Son who has been made perfect forever.
Hebrews	8:1	Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
Hebrews	8:2	a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man.
Hebrews	8:3	For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; thus it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer.
Hebrews	8:4	Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law.
Hebrews	8:5	They serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he was instructed by God, saying, "See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain."
Hebrews	8:6	But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.
Hebrews	8:7	For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second.
Hebrews	8:8	For he finds fault with them when he says: "Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
Hebrews	8:9	not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord.
Hebrews	8:10	For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Hebrews	8:11	And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
Hebrews	8:12	For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more."
Hebrews	8:13	In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.
Hebrews	9:1	Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness.
Hebrews	9:2	For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place.
Hebrews	9:3	Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place,
Hebrews	9:4	having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant.
Hebrews	9:5	Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail.
Hebrews	9:6	These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties,
Hebrews	9:7	but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people.
Hebrews	9:8	By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing
Hebrews	9:9	(which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper,
Hebrews	9:10	but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation.
Hebrews	9:11	But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation)
Hebrews	9:12	he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption.
Hebrews	9:13	For if the sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with the ashes of a heifer sanctifies for the purification of the flesh,
Hebrews	9:14	how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.
Hebrews	9:15	Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant.
Hebrews	9:16	For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established.
Hebrews	9:17	For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive.
Hebrews	9:18	Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood.
Hebrews	9:19	For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
Hebrews	9:20	saying, "This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you."
Hebrews	9:21	And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship.
Hebrews	9:22	Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
Hebrews	9:23	Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Hebrews	9:24	For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.
Hebrews	9:25	Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own,
Hebrews	9:26	for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Hebrews	9:27	And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment,
Hebrews	9:28	so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.
Hebrews	10:1	For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near.
Hebrews	10:2	Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sin?
Hebrews	10:3	But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sin every year.
Hebrews	10:4	For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Hebrews	10:5	Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, "Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me;
Hebrews	10:6	in burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure.
Hebrews	10:7	Then I said, 'Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.'"
Hebrews	10:8	When he said above, "You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings" (these are offered according to the law),
Hebrews	10:9	then he added, "Behold, I have come to do your will." He abolishes the first in order to establish the second.
Hebrews	10:10	And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Hebrews	10:11	And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
Hebrews	10:12	But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,
Hebrews	10:13	waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet.
Hebrews	10:14	For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.
Hebrews	10:15	And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
Hebrews	10:16	"This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,"
Hebrews	10:17	then he adds, "I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more."
Hebrews	10:18	Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.
Hebrews	10:19	Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus,
Hebrews	10:20	by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,
Hebrews	10:21	and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Hebrews	10:22	let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Hebrews	10:23	Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.
Hebrews	10:24	And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works,
Hebrews	10:25	not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.
Hebrews	10:26	For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,
Hebrews	10:27	but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries.
Hebrews	10:28	Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Hebrews	10:29	How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace?
Hebrews	10:30	For we know him who said, "Vengeance is mine; I will repay." And again, "The Lord will judge his people."
Hebrews	10:31	It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Hebrews	10:32	But recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings,
Hebrews	10:33	sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated.
Hebrews	10:34	For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one.
Hebrews	10:35	Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward.
Hebrews	10:36	For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised.
Hebrews	10:37	For, "Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will not delay;
Hebrews	10:38	but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him."
Hebrews	10:39	But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls.
Hebrews	11:1	Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
Hebrews	11:2	For by it the people of old received their commendation.
Hebrews	11:3	By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible.
Hebrews	11:4	By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks.
Hebrews	11:5	By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God.
Hebrews	11:6	And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.
Hebrews	11:7	By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith.
Hebrews	11:8	By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Hebrews	11:9	By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise.
Hebrews	11:10	For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God.
Hebrews	11:11	By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised.
Hebrews	11:12	Therefore from one man, and him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of heaven and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.
Hebrews	11:13	These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.
Hebrews	11:14	For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.
Hebrews	11:15	If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return.
Hebrews	11:16	But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city.
Hebrews	11:17	By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son,
Hebrews	11:18	of whom it was said, "Through Isaac shall your offspring be named."
Hebrews	11:19	He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back.
Hebrews	11:20	By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau.
Hebrews	11:21	By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff.
Hebrews	11:22	By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones.
Hebrews	11:23	By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict.
Hebrews	11:24	By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Hebrews	11:25	choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin.
Hebrews	11:26	He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward.
Hebrews	11:27	By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible.
Hebrews	11:28	By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them.
Hebrews	11:29	By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as if on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned.
Hebrews	11:30	By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days.
Hebrews	11:31	By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies.
Hebrews	11:32	And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets--
Hebrews	11:33	who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
Hebrews	11:34	quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight.
Hebrews	11:35	Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life.
Hebrews	11:36	Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment.
Hebrews	11:37	They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated--
Hebrews	11:38	of whom the world was not worthy--wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
Hebrews	11:39	And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised,
Hebrews	11:40	since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.
Hebrews	12:1	Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,
Hebrews	12:2	looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
Hebrews	12:3	Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted.
Hebrews	12:4	In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.
Hebrews	12:5	And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? "My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him.
Hebrews	12:6	For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives."
Hebrews	12:7	It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline?
Hebrews	12:8	If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.
Hebrews	12:9	Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live?
Hebrews	12:10	For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness.
Hebrews	12:11	For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
Hebrews	12:12	Therefore lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees,
Hebrews	12:13	and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather be healed.
Hebrews	12:14	Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.
Hebrews	12:15	See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God; that no "root of bitterness" springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled;
Hebrews	12:16	that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
Hebrews	12:17	For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears.
Hebrews	12:18	For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest
Hebrews	12:19	and the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them.
Hebrews	12:20	For they could not endure the order that was given, "If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned."
Hebrews	12:21	Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, "I tremble with fear."
Hebrews	12:22	But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering,
Hebrews	12:23	and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
Hebrews	12:24	and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.
Hebrews	12:25	See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven.
Hebrews	12:26	At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens."
Hebrews	12:27	This phrase, "Yet once more," indicates the removal of things that are shaken--that is, things that have been made--in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain.
Hebrews	12:28	Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe,
Hebrews	12:29	for our God is a consuming fire.
Hebrews	13:1	Let brotherly love continue.
Hebrews	13:2	Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
Hebrews	13:3	Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body.
Hebrews	13:4	Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous.
Hebrews	13:5	Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, "I will never leave you nor forsake you."
Hebrews	13:6	So we can confidently say, "The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?"
Hebrews	13:7	Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith.
Hebrews	13:8	Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Hebrews	13:9	Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them.
Hebrews	13:10	We have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat.
Hebrews	13:11	For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin are burned outside the camp.
Hebrews	13:12	So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood.
Hebrews	13:13	Therefore let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured.
Hebrews	13:14	For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come.
Hebrews	13:15	Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice _aineseus_ to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name.
Hebrews	13:16	Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.
Hebrews	13:17	Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you.
Hebrews	13:18	Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things.
Hebrews	13:19	I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Hebrews	13:20	Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant,
Hebrews	13:21	equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Hebrews	13:22	I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly.
Hebrews	13:23	You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon.
Hebrews	13:24	Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings.
Hebrews	13:25	Grace be with all of you.
James	1:1	James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,To the twelve tribes in the Dispersion:Greetings.
James	1:2	Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds,
James	1:3	for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness.
James	1:4	And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
James	1:5	If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him.
James	1:6	But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind.
James	1:7	For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
James	1:8	he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
James	1:9	Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
James	1:10	and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
James	1:11	For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits.
James	1:12	Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him.
James	1:13	Let no one say when he is tempted, "I am being tempted by God," for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one.
James	1:14	But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire.
James	1:15	Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.
James	1:16	Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
James	1:17	Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.
James	1:18	Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.
James	1:19	Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;
James	1:20	for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness that God requires.
James	1:21	Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
James	1:22	But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.
James	1:23	For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror.
James	1:24	For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like.
James	1:25	But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.
James	1:26	If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless.
James	1:27	Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world.
James	2:1	My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory.
James	2:2	For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in,
James	2:3	and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, "You sit here in a good place," while you say to the poor man, "You stand over there," or, "Sit down at my feet,"
James	2:4	have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts?
James	2:5	Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him?
James	2:6	But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you, and the ones who drag you into court?
James	2:7	Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called?
James	2:8	If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself," you are doing well.
James	2:9	But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors.
James	2:10	For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it.
James	2:11	For he who said, "Do not commit adultery," also said, "Do not murder." If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
James	2:12	So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.
James	2:13	For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
James	2:14	What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
James	2:15	If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food,
James	2:16	and one of you says to them, "Go in peace, be warmed and filled," without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?
James	2:17	So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.
James	2:18	But someone will say, "You have faith and I have works." Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
James	2:19	You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons believe--and shudder!
James	2:20	Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless?
James	2:21	Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar?
James	2:22	You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works;
James	2:23	and the Scripture was fulfilled that says, "Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness"--and he was called a friend of God.
James	2:24	You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone.
James	2:25	And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way?
James	2:26	For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead.
James	3:1	Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness.
James	3:2	For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body.
James	3:3	If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well.
James	3:4	Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs.
James	3:5	So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things.How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire!
James	3:6	And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell.
James	3:7	For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature, can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind,
James	3:8	but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
James	3:9	With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God.
James	3:10	From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
James	3:11	Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water?
James	3:12	Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water.
James	3:13	Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom.
James	3:14	But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth.
James	3:15	This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic.
James	3:16	For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.
James	3:17	But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere.
James	3:18	And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.
James	4:1	What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you?
James	4:2	You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.
James	4:3	You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.
James	4:4	You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
James	4:5	Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, "He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us"?
James	4:6	But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble."
James	4:7	Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
James	4:8	Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
James	4:9	Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom.
James	4:10	Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.
James	4:11	Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
James	4:12	There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor?
James	4:13	Come now, you who say, "Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit"--
James	4:14	yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes.
James	4:15	Instead you ought to say, "If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that."
James	4:16	As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.
James	4:17	So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.
James	5:1	Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you.
James	5:2	Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth-eaten.
James	5:3	Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days.
James	5:4	Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts.
James	5:5	You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter.
James	5:6	You have condemned; you have murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you.
James	5:7	Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it, until it receives the early and the late rains.
James	5:8	You also, be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
James	5:9	Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged; behold, the Judge is standing at the door.
James	5:10	As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
James	5:11	Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful.
James	5:12	But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your "yes" be yes and your "no" be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.
James	5:13	Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? _tys psalletu_.
James	5:14	Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
James	5:15	And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
James	5:16	Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.
James	5:17	Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth.
James	5:18	Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit.
James	5:19	My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back,
James	5:20	let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.
1 Peter	1:1	Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1 Peter	1:2	according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:May grace and peace be multiplied to you.
1 Peter	1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1 Peter	1:4	to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you,
1 Peter	1:5	who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
1 Peter	1:6	In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials,
1 Peter	1:7	so that the tested genuineness of your faith--more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire--may be found to result in _epainon kai doxan_ and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter	1:8	Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory,
1 Peter	1:9	obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1 Peter	1:10	Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully,
1 Peter	1:11	inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.
1 Peter	1:12	It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look.
1 Peter	1:13	Therefore, preparing your minds for action, and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter	1:14	As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance,
1 Peter	1:15	but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct,
1 Peter	1:16	since it is written, "You shall be holy, for I am holy."
1 Peter	1:17	And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile,
1 Peter	1:18	knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold,
1 Peter	1:19	but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.
1 Peter	1:20	He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made manifest in the last times for your sake,
1 Peter	1:21	who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
1 Peter	1:22	Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
1 Peter	1:23	since you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God;
1 Peter	1:24	for "All flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower falls,
1 Peter	1:25	but the word of the Lord remains forever."And this word is the good news that was preached to you.
1 Peter	2:1	So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander.
1 Peter	2:2	Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation--
1 Peter	2:3	if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.
1 Peter	2:4	As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious,
1 Peter	2:5	you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1 Peter	2:6	For it stands in Scripture: "Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame."
1 Peter	2:7	So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, "The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone,"
1 Peter	2:8	and "A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense."They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do.
1 Peter	2:9	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
1 Peter	2:10	Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.
1 Peter	2:11	Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul.
1 Peter	2:12	Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation.
1 Peter	2:13	Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme,
1 Peter	2:14	or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to _epainon_ those who do good.
1 Peter	2:15	For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.
1 Peter	2:16	Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God.
1 Peter	2:17	Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor.
1 Peter	2:18	Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle but also to the unjust.
1 Peter	2:19	For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly.
1 Peter	2:20	For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God.
1 Peter	2:21	For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps.
1 Peter	2:22	He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
1 Peter	2:23	When he was reviled, he did not revile in return; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly.
1 Peter	2:24	He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed.
1 Peter	2:25	For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
1 Peter	3:1	Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives--
1 Peter	3:2	when they see your respectful and pure conduct.
1 Peter	3:3	Do not let your adorning be external--the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing--
1 Peter	3:4	but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.
1 Peter	3:5	For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their husbands,
1 Peter	3:6	as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening.
1 Peter	3:7	Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
1 Peter	3:8	Finally, all of you, have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind.
1 Peter	3:9	Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing.
1 Peter	3:10	For "Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit;
1 Peter	3:11	let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.
1 Peter	3:12	For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil."
1 Peter	3:13	Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good?
1 Peter	3:14	But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled,
1 Peter	3:15	but in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you;
1 Peter	3:16	yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that, when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame.
1 Peter	3:17	For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil.
1 Peter	3:18	For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit,
1 Peter	3:19	in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
1 Peter	3:20	because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water.
1 Peter	3:21	Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1 Peter	3:22	who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
1 Peter	4:1	Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,
1 Peter	4:2	so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God.
1 Peter	4:3	The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry.
1 Peter	4:4	With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you;
1 Peter	4:5	but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
1 Peter	4:6	For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does.
1 Peter	4:7	The end of all things is at hand; therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers.
1 Peter	4:8	Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.
1 Peter	4:9	Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.
1 Peter	4:10	As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace:
1 Peter	4:11	whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God; whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies--in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter	4:12	Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you.
1 Peter	4:13	But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed.
1 Peter	4:14	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.
1 Peter	4:15	But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler.
1 Peter	4:16	Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name.
1 Peter	4:17	For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God?
1 Peter	4:18	And "If the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner?"
1 Peter	4:19	Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.
1 Peter	5:1	So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed:
1 Peter	5:2	shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you; not for shameful gain, but eagerly;
1 Peter	5:3	not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock.
1 Peter	5:4	And when the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
1 Peter	5:5	Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for "God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble."
1 Peter	5:6	Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you,
1 Peter	5:7	casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.
1 Peter	5:8	Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.
1 Peter	5:9	Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world.
1 Peter	5:10	And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.
1 Peter	5:11	To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter	5:12	By Silvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it.
1 Peter	5:13	She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son.
1 Peter	5:14	Greet one another with the kiss of love.Peace to all of you who are in Christ.
2 Peter	1:1	Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
2 Peter	1:2	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
2 Peter	1:3	His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence,
2 Peter	1:4	by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.
2 Peter	1:5	For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,
2 Peter	1:6	and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness,
2 Peter	1:7	and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love.
2 Peter	1:8	For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Peter	1:9	For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins.
2 Peter	1:10	Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.
2 Peter	1:11	For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
2 Peter	1:12	Therefore I intend always to remind you of these qualities, though you know them and are established in the truth that you have.
2 Peter	1:13	I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir you up by way of reminder,
2 Peter	1:14	since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.
2 Peter	1:15	And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things.
2 Peter	1:16	For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
2 Peter	1:17	For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased,"
2 Peter	1:18	we ourselves heard this very voice borne from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain.
2 Peter	1:19	And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts,
2 Peter	1:20	knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation.
2 Peter	1:21	For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
2 Peter	2:1	But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2 Peter	2:2	And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed.
2 Peter	2:3	And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep.
2 Peter	2:4	For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;
2 Peter	2:5	if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2 Peter	2:6	if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly;
2 Peter	2:7	and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked
2 Peter	2:8	(for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard);
2 Peter	2:9	then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment,
2 Peter	2:10	and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority.Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones,
2 Peter	2:11	whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord.
2 Peter	2:12	But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction,
2 Peter	2:13	suffering wrong as the wage for their wrongdoing. They count it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, while they feast with you.
2 Peter	2:14	They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children!
2 Peter	2:15	Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing,
2 Peter	2:16	but was rebuked for his own transgression; a speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness.
2 Peter	2:17	These are waterless springs and mists driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved.
2 Peter	2:18	For, speaking loud boasts of folly, they entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely escaping from those who live in error.
2 Peter	2:19	They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved.
2 Peter	2:20	For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
2 Peter	2:21	For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2 Peter	2:22	What the true proverb says has happened to them: "The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire."
2 Peter	3:1	This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder,
2 Peter	3:2	that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles,
2 Peter	3:3	knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires.
2 Peter	3:4	They will say, "Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation."
2 Peter	3:5	For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God,
2 Peter	3:6	and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished.
2 Peter	3:7	But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly.
2 Peter	3:8	But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
2 Peter	3:9	The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance.
2 Peter	3:10	But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed.
2 Peter	3:11	Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness,
2 Peter	3:12	waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn!
2 Peter	3:13	But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.
2 Peter	3:14	Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace.
2 Peter	3:15	And count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him,
2 Peter	3:16	as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other Scriptures.
2 Peter	3:17	You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability.
2 Peter	3:18	But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.
1 John	1:1	That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life--
1 John	1:2	the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us--
1 John	1:3	that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.
1 John	1:4	And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete.
1 John	1:5	This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
1 John	1:6	If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth.
1 John	1:7	But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
1 John	1:8	If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1 John	1:9	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1 John	1:10	If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
1 John	2:1	My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
1 John	2:2	He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world.
1 John	2:3	And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments.
1 John	2:4	Whoever says "I know him" but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,
1 John	2:5	but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may be sure that we are in him:
1 John	2:6	whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked.
1 John	2:7	Beloved, I am writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard.
1 John	2:8	At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
1 John	2:9	Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness.
1 John	2:10	Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling.
1 John	2:11	But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1 John	2:12	I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake.
1 John	2:13	I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father.
1 John	2:14	I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
1 John	2:15	Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
1 John	2:16	For all that is in the world--the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions--is not from the Father but is from the world.
1 John	2:17	And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.
1 John	2:18	Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard that antichrist is coming, so now many antichrists have come. Therefore we know that it is the last hour.
1 John	2:19	They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us.
1 John	2:20	But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge.
1 John	2:21	I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
1 John	2:22	Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son.
1 John	2:23	No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also.
1 John	2:24	Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father.
1 John	2:25	And this is the promise that he made to us--eternal life.
1 John	2:26	I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you.
1 John	2:27	But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything--and is true and is no lie, just as it has taught you--abide in him.
1 John	2:28	And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming.
1 John	2:29	If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him.
1 John	3:1	See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him.
1 John	3:2	Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared; but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is.
1 John	3:3	And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure.
1 John	3:4	Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness.
1 John	3:5	You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.
1 John	3:6	No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
1 John	3:7	Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.
1 John	3:8	Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil.
1 John	3:9	No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God.
1 John	3:10	By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.
1 John	3:11	For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
1 John	3:12	We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were evil and his brother's righteous.
1 John	3:13	Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you.
1 John	3:14	We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death.
1 John	3:15	Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
1 John	3:16	By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
1 John	3:17	But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him?
1 John	3:18	Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.
1 John	3:19	By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him;
1 John	3:20	for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything.
1 John	3:21	Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;
1 John	3:22	and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do what pleases him.
1 John	3:23	And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as he has commanded us.
1 John	3:24	Whoever keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in them. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us.
1 John	4:1	Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out into the world.
1 John	4:2	By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God,
1 John	4:3	and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already.
1 John	4:4	Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.
1 John	4:5	They are from the world; therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them.
1 John	4:6	We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
1 John	4:7	Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God.
1 John	4:8	Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
1 John	4:9	In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him.
1 John	4:10	In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
1 John	4:11	Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
1 John	4:12	No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us.
1 John	4:13	By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.
1 John	4:14	And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.
1 John	4:15	Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
1 John	4:16	So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.
1 John	4:17	By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this world.
1 John	4:18	There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love.
1 John	4:19	We love because he first loved us.
1 John	4:20	If anyone says, "I love God," and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.
1 John	4:21	And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother.
1 John	5:1	Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him.
1 John	5:2	By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his commandments.
1 John	5:3	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.
1 John	5:4	For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world--our faith.
1 John	5:5	Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
1 John	5:6	This is he who came by water and blood--Jesus Christ; not by the water only but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth.
1 John	5:7	For there are three that testify:
1 John	5:8	the Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree.
1 John	5:9	If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, for this is the testimony of God that he has borne concerning his Son.
1 John	5:10	Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son.
1 John	5:11	And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
1 John	5:12	Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.
1 John	5:13	I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life.
1 John	5:14	And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us.
1 John	5:15	And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.
1 John	5:16	If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life--to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death; I do not say that one should pray for that.
1 John	5:17	All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death.
1 John	5:18	We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him.
1 John	5:19	We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
1 John	5:20	And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
1 John	5:21	Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
2 John	1:1	The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth,
2 John	1:2	because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:
2 John	1:3	Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love.
2 John	1:4	I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father.
2 John	1:5	And now I ask you, dear lady--not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning--that we love one another.
2 John	1:6	And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.
2 John	1:7	For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist.
2 John	1:8	Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
2 John	1:9	Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
2 John	1:10	If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
2 John	1:11	for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.
2 John	1:12	Though I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead I hope to come to you and talk face to face, so that our joy may be complete.
2 John	1:13	The children of your elect sister greet you.
3 John	1:1	The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth.
3 John	1:2	Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul.
3 John	1:3	For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth.
3 John	1:4	I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.
3 John	1:5	Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are,
3 John	1:6	who testified to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God.
3 John	1:7	For they have gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
3 John	1:8	Therefore we ought to support people like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth.
3 John	1:9	I have written something to the church, but Diotrephes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority.
3 John	1:10	So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church.
3 John	1:11	Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God; whoever does evil has not seen God.
3 John	1:12	Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true.
3 John	1:13	I had much to write to you, but I would rather not write with pen and ink.
3 John	1:14	I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face.
Jude	1:1	Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James,To those who are called, beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:
Jude	1:2	May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Jude	1:3	Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints.
Jude	1:4	For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Jude	1:5	Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe.
Jude	1:6	And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day--
Jude	1:7	just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.
Jude	1:8	Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones.
Jude	1:9	But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, "The Lord rebuke you."
Jude	1:10	But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand, and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively.
Jude	1:11	Woe to them! For they walked in the way of Cain and abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error and perished in Korah's rebellion.
Jude	1:12	These are blemishes on your love feasts, as they feast with you without fear, looking after themselves; waterless clouds, swept along by winds; fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted;
Jude	1:13	wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.
Jude	1:14	It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, "Behold, the Lord came with ten thousands of his holy ones,
Jude	1:15	to execute judgment on all and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him."
Jude	1:16	These are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires; they are loud-mouthed boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage.
Jude	1:17	But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Jude	1:18	They said to you, "In the last time there will be scoffers, following their own ungodly passions."
Jude	1:19	It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the Spirit.
Jude	1:20	But you, beloved, build yourselves up in your most holy faith; pray in the Holy Spirit;
Jude	1:21	keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.
Jude	1:22	And have mercy on those who doubt;
Jude	1:23	save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh.
Jude	1:24	Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy,
Jude	1:25	to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.
Revelation	1:1	The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,
Revelation	1:2	who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw.
Revelation	1:3	Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near.
Revelation	1:4	John to the seven churches that are in Asia:Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne,
Revelation	1:5	and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth.To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood
Revelation	1:6	and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Revelation	1:7	Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen.
Revelation	1:8	"I am the Alpha and the Omega," says the Lord God, "who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty."
Revelation	1:9	I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
Revelation	1:10	I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet
Revelation	1:11	saying, "Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea."
Revelation	1:12	Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands,
Revelation	1:13	and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest.
Revelation	1:14	The hairs of his head were white like wool, as white as snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire,
Revelation	1:15	his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters.
Revelation	1:16	In his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength.
Revelation	1:17	When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, "Fear not, I am the first and the last,
Revelation	1:18	and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades.
Revelation	1:19	Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this.
Revelation	1:20	As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
Revelation	2:1	"To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: 'The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands.
Revelation	2:2	"'I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.
Revelation	2:3	I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary.
Revelation	2:4	But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.
Revelation	2:5	Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.
Revelation	2:6	Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Revelation	2:7	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.'
Revelation	2:8	"And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: 'The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life.
Revelation	2:9	"'I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Revelation	2:10	Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.
Revelation	2:11	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.'
Revelation	2:12	"And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: 'The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword.
Revelation	2:13	"'I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
Revelation	2:14	But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality.
Revelation	2:15	So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Revelation	2:16	Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth.
Revelation	2:17	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.'
Revelation	2:18	"And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: 'The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
Revelation	2:19	"'I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.
Revelation	2:20	But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.
Revelation	2:21	I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.
Revelation	2:22	Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works,
Revelation	2:23	and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you as your works deserve.
Revelation	2:24	But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden.
Revelation	2:25	Only hold fast what you have until I come.
Revelation	2:26	The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations,
Revelation	2:27	and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father.
Revelation	2:28	And I will give him the morning star.
Revelation	2:29	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Revelation	3:1	"And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: 'The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars."'I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
Revelation	3:2	Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God.
Revelation	3:3	Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.
Revelation	3:4	Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
Revelation	3:5	The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
Revelation	3:6	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Revelation	3:7	"And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: 'The words of the holy one, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens.
Revelation	3:8	"'I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
Revelation	3:9	Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie--behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet and they will learn that I have loved you.
Revelation	3:10	Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.
Revelation	3:11	I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.
Revelation	3:12	The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name.
Revelation	3:13	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
Revelation	3:14	"And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: 'The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation.
Revelation	3:15	"'I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot!
Revelation	3:16	So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.
Revelation	3:17	For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.
Revelation	3:18	I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see.
Revelation	3:19	Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.
Revelation	3:20	Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.
Revelation	3:21	The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
Revelation	3:22	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'"
Revelation	4:1	After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this."
Revelation	4:2	At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne.
Revelation	4:3	And he who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald.
Revelation	4:4	Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads.
Revelation	4:5	From the throne came flashes of lightning, and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God,
Revelation	4:6	and before the throne there was as it were a sea of glass, like crystal.And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind:
Revelation	4:7	the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight.
Revelation	4:8	And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say, "Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come!"
Revelation	4:9	And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever,
Revelation	4:10	the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Revelation	4:11	"Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created."
Revelation	5:1	Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals.
Revelation	5:2	And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?"
Revelation	5:3	And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it,
Revelation	5:4	and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it.
Revelation	5:5	And one of the elders said to me, "Weep no more; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals."
Revelation	5:6	And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.
Revelation	5:7	And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne.
Revelation	5:8	And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
Revelation	5:9	And they sang a new song, saying, "Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation,
Revelation	5:10	and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth."
Revelation	5:11	Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
Revelation	5:12	saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!"
Revelation	5:13	And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, "To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!"
Revelation	5:14	And the four living creatures said, "Amen!" and the elders fell down and worshiped.
Revelation	6:1	Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice like thunder, "Come!"
Revelation	6:2	And I looked, and behold, a white horse! And its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering, and to conquer.
Revelation	6:3	When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come!"
Revelation	6:4	And out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that men should slay one another, and he was given a great sword.
Revelation	6:5	When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, "Come!" And I looked, and behold, a black horse! And its rider had a pair of scales in his hand.
Revelation	6:6	And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, "A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine!"
Revelation	6:7	When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, "Come!"
Revelation	6:8	And I looked, and behold, a pale horse! And its rider's name was Death, and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by wild beasts of the earth.
Revelation	6:9	When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne.
Revelation	6:10	They cried out with a loud voice, "O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?"
Revelation	6:11	Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.
Revelation	6:12	When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth, the full moon became like blood,
Revelation	6:13	and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale.
Revelation	6:14	The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place.
Revelation	6:15	Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful, and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains,
Revelation	6:16	calling to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb,
Revelation	6:17	for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand?"
Revelation	7:1	After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree.
Revelation	7:2	Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun, with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea,
Revelation	7:3	saying, "Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads."
Revelation	7:4	And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:
Revelation	7:5	12,000 from the tribe of Judah were sealed, 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of Gad,
Revelation	7:6	12,000 from the tribe of Asher, 12,000 from the tribe of Naphtali, 12,000 from the tribe of Manasseh,
Revelation	7:7	12,000 from the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 from the tribe of Levi, 12,000 from the tribe of Issachar,
Revelation	7:8	12,000 from the tribe of Zebulun, 12,000 from the tribe of Joseph, 12,000 from the tribe of Benjamin were sealed.
Revelation	7:9	After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands,
Revelation	7:10	and crying out with a loud voice, "Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!"
Revelation	7:11	And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,
Revelation	7:12	saying, "Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen."
Revelation	7:13	Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, "Who are these, clothed in white robes, and from where have they come?"
Revelation	7:14	I said to him, "Sir, you know." And he said to me, "These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Revelation	7:15	"Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence.
Revelation	7:16	They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat.
Revelation	7:17	For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes."
Revelation	8:1	When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Revelation	8:2	Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
Revelation	8:3	And another angel came and stood at the altar with a golden censer, and he was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne,
Revelation	8:4	and the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, rose before God from the hand of the angel.
Revelation	8:5	Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it on the earth, and there were peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.
Revelation	8:6	Now the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to blow them.
Revelation	8:7	The first angel blew his trumpet, and there followed hail and fire, mixed with blood, and these were thrown upon the earth. And a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
Revelation	8:8	The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood.
Revelation	8:9	A third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.
Revelation	8:10	The third angel blew his trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, blazing like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water.
Revelation	8:11	The name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters became wormwood, and many people died from the water, because it had been made bitter.
Revelation	8:12	The fourth angel blew his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of their light might be darkened, and a third of the day might be kept from shining, and likewise a third of the night.
Revelation	8:13	Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice as it flew directly overhead, "Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth, at the blasts of the other trumpets that the three angels are about to blow!"
Revelation	9:1	And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit.
Revelation	9:2	He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft.
Revelation	9:3	Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth.
Revelation	9:4	They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
Revelation	9:5	They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone.
Revelation	9:6	And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them.
Revelation	9:7	In appearance the locusts were like horses prepared for battle: on their heads were what looked like crowns of gold; their faces were like human faces,
Revelation	9:8	their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth;
Revelation	9:9	they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle.
Revelation	9:10	They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails.
Revelation	9:11	They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek he is called Apollyon.
Revelation	9:12	The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come.
Revelation	9:13	Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
Revelation	9:14	saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates."
Revelation	9:15	So the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year, were released to kill a third of mankind.
Revelation	9:16	The number of mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand; I heard their number.
Revelation	9:17	And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them: they wore breastplates the color of fire and of sapphire and of sulfur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths.
Revelation	9:18	By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of their mouths.
Revelation	9:19	For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound.
Revelation	9:20	The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk,
Revelation	9:21	nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.
Revelation	10:1	Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over his head, and his face was like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire.
Revelation	10:2	He had a little scroll open in his hand. And he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land,
Revelation	10:3	and called out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he called out, the seven thunders sounded.
Revelation	10:4	And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Seal up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down."
Revelation	10:5	And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven
Revelation	10:6	and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there would be no more delay,
Revelation	10:7	but that in the days of the trumpet call to be sounded by the seventh angel, the mystery of God would be fulfilled, just as he announced to his servants the prophets.
Revelation	10:8	Then the voice that I had heard from heaven spoke to me again, saying, "Go, take the scroll that is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land."
Revelation	10:9	So I went to the angel and told him to give me the little scroll. And he said to me, "Take and eat it; it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey."
Revelation	10:10	And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel and ate it. It was sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it my stomach was made bitter.
Revelation	10:11	And I was told, "You must again prophesy about many peoples and nations and languages and kings."
Revelation	11:1	Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, "Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there,
Revelation	11:2	but do not measure the court outside the temple; leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months.
Revelation	11:3	And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth."
Revelation	11:4	These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.
Revelation	11:5	And if anyone would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed.
Revelation	11:6	They have the power to shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague, as often as they desire.
Revelation	11:7	And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them,
Revelation	11:8	and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically is called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was crucified.
Revelation	11:9	For three and a half days some from the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb,
Revelation	11:10	and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth.
Revelation	11:11	But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.
Revelation	11:12	Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up here!" And they went up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them.
Revelation	11:13	And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
Revelation	11:14	The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is soon to come.
Revelation	11:15	Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, "The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever."
Revelation	11:16	And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God,
Revelation	11:17	saying, "We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was, for you have taken your great power and begun to reign.
Revelation	11:18	The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth."
Revelation	11:19	Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail.
Revelation	12:1	And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
Revelation	12:2	She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth.
Revelation	12:3	And another sign appeared in heaven: behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
Revelation	12:4	His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it.
Revelation	12:5	She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne,
Revelation	12:6	and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1,260 days.
Revelation	12:7	Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back,
Revelation	12:8	but he was defeated and there was no longer any place for them in heaven.
Revelation	12:9	And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world--he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
Revelation	12:10	And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, "Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God.
Revelation	12:11	And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death.
Revelation	12:12	Therefore, rejoice, O heavens and you who dwell in them! But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short!"
Revelation	12:13	And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child.
Revelation	12:14	But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness, to the place where she is to be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time.
Revelation	12:15	The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away with a flood.
Revelation	12:16	But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth.
Revelation	12:17	Then the dragon became furious with the woman and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea.
Revelation	13:1	And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems on its horns and blasphemous names on its heads.
Revelation	13:2	And the beast that I saw was like a leopard; its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. And to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority.
Revelation	13:3	One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast.
Revelation	13:4	And they worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, "Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?"
Revelation	13:5	And the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty-two months.
Revelation	13:6	It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling, that is, those who dwell in heaven.
Revelation	13:7	Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation,
Revelation	13:8	and all who dwell on earth will worship it, everyone whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain.
Revelation	13:9	If anyone has an ear, let him hear:
Revelation	13:10	If anyone is to be taken captive, to captivity he goes; if anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the sword must he be slain.Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.
Revelation	13:11	Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a dragon.
Revelation	13:12	It exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence, and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
Revelation	13:13	It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people,
Revelation	13:14	and by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast it deceives those who dwell on earth, telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived.
Revelation	13:15	And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain.
Revelation	13:16	Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead,
Revelation	13:17	so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Revelation	13:18	This calls for wisdom: let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is 666.
Revelation	14:1	Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.
Revelation	14:2	And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps,
Revelation	14:3	and they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.
Revelation	14:4	It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as firstfruits for God and the Lamb,
Revelation	14:5	and in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless.
Revelation	14:6	Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people.
Revelation	14:7	And he said with a loud voice, "Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water."
Revelation	14:8	Another angel, a second, followed, saying, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who made all nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality."
Revelation	14:9	And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
Revelation	14:10	he also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
Revelation	14:11	And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name."
Revelation	14:12	Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.
Revelation	14:13	And I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.Blessed indeed," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!"
Revelation	14:14	Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
Revelation	14:15	And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, "Put in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe."
Revelation	14:16	So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Revelation	14:17	Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle.
Revelation	14:18	And another angel came out from the altar, the angel who has authority over the fire, and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, "Put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe."
Revelation	14:19	So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
Revelation	14:20	And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress, as high as a horse's bridle, for 1,600 stadia.
Revelation	15:1	Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing, seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished.
Revelation	15:2	And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire--and also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name, standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hands.
Revelation	15:3	And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty! Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations!
Revelation	15:4	Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed."
Revelation	15:5	After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of witness in heaven was opened,
Revelation	15:6	and out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure, bright linen, with golden sashes around their chests.
Revelation	15:7	And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever,
Revelation	15:8	and the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.
Revelation	16:1	Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven angels, "Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God."
Revelation	16:2	So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful sores came upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
Revelation	16:3	The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a corpse, and every living thing died that was in the sea.
Revelation	16:4	The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood.
Revelation	16:5	And I heard the angel in charge of the waters say, "Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments.
Revelation	16:6	For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve!"
Revelation	16:7	And I heard the altar saying, "Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments!"
Revelation	16:8	The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch people with fire.
Revelation	16:9	They were scorched by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God who had power over these plagues. They did not repent and give him glory.
Revelation	16:10	The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in anguish
Revelation	16:11	and cursed the God of heaven for their pain and sores. They did not repent of their deeds.
Revelation	16:12	The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up, to prepare the way for the kings from the east.
Revelation	16:13	And I saw, coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
Revelation	16:14	For they are demonic spirits, performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole world, to assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty.
Revelation	16:15	("Behold, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!")
Revelation	16:16	And they assembled them at the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon.
Revelation	16:17	The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple, from the throne, saying, "It is done!"
Revelation	16:18	And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, and a great earthquake such as there had never been since man was on the earth, so great was that earthquake.
Revelation	16:19	The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and God remembered Babylon the great, to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath.
Revelation	16:20	And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found.
Revelation	16:21	And great hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people; and they cursed God for the plague of the hail, because the plague was so severe.
Revelation	17:1	Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters,
Revelation	17:2	with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk."
Revelation	17:3	And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns.
Revelation	17:4	The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality.
Revelation	17:5	And on her forehead was written a name of mystery: "Babylon the great, mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations."
Revelation	17:6	And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I marveled greatly.
Revelation	17:7	But the angel said to me, "Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her.
Revelation	17:8	The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to destruction. And the dwellers on earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel to see the beast, because it was and is not and is to come.
Revelation	17:9	This calls for a mind with wisdom: the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated;
Revelation	17:10	they are also seven kings, five of whom have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he does come he must remain only a little while.
Revelation	17:11	As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction.
Revelation	17:12	And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received royal power, but they are to receive authority as kings for one hour, together with the beast.
Revelation	17:13	These are of one mind and hand over their power and authority to the beast.
Revelation	17:14	They will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful."
Revelation	17:15	And the angel said to me, "The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages.
Revelation	17:16	And the ten horns that you saw, they and the beast will hate the prostitute. They will make her desolate and naked, and devour her flesh and burn her up with fire,
Revelation	17:17	for God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and handing over their royal power to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.
Revelation	17:18	And the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth."
Revelation	18:1	After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was made bright with his glory.
Revelation	18:2	And he called out with a mighty voice, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast.
Revelation	18:3	For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living."
Revelation	18:4	Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues;
Revelation	18:5	for her sins are heaped high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.
Revelation	18:6	Pay her back as she herself has paid back others, and repay her double for her deeds; mix a double portion for her in the cup she mixed.
Revelation	18:7	As she glorified herself and lived in luxury, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning, since in her heart she says, 'I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see.'
Revelation	18:8	For this reason her plagues will come in a single day, death and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire; for mighty is the Lord God who has judged her."
Revelation	18:9	And the kings of the earth, who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her, will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning.
Revelation	18:10	They will stand far off, in fear of her torment, and say, "Alas! Alas! You great city, you mighty city, Babylon! For in a single hour your judgment has come."
Revelation	18:11	And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo anymore,
Revelation	18:12	cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron and marble,
Revelation	18:13	cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls.
Revelation	18:14	"The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors are lost to you, never to be found again!"
Revelation	18:15	The merchants of these wares, who gained wealth from her, will stand far off, in fear of her torment, weeping and mourning aloud,
Revelation	18:16	"Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, with jewels, and with pearls!
Revelation	18:17	For in a single hour all this wealth has been laid waste."And all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors and all whose trade is on the sea, stood far off
Revelation	18:18	and cried out as they saw the smoke of her burning, "What city was like the great city?"
Revelation	18:19	And they threw dust on their heads as they wept and mourned, crying out, "Alas, alas, for the great city where all who had ships at sea grew rich by her wealth! For in a single hour she has been laid waste.
Revelation	18:20	Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, for God has given judgment for you against her!"
Revelation	18:21	Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, "So will Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence, and will be found no more;
Revelation	18:22	and the sound of harpists and musicians, of flute players and trumpeters, will be heard in you no more, and a craftsman of any craft will be found in you no more, and the sound of the mill will be heard in you no more,
Revelation	18:23	and the light of a lamp will shine in you no more, and the voice of bridegroom and bride will be heard in you no more, for your merchants were the great ones of the earth, and all nations were deceived by your sorcery.
Revelation	18:24	And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on earth."
Revelation	19:1	After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying out, "Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God,
Revelation	19:2	for his judgments are true and just; for he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged on her the blood of his servants."
Revelation	19:3	Once more they cried out, "Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever."
Revelation	19:4	And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who was seated on the throne, saying, "Amen. Hallelujah!"
Revelation	19:5	And from the throne came a voice saying, "_aineite_ our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, small and great."
Revelation	19:6	Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, crying out, "Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns.
Revelation	19:7	Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his Bride has made herself ready;
Revelation	19:8	it was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure"--for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints.
Revelation	19:9	And the angel said to me, "Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he said to me, "These are the true words of God."
Revelation	19:10	Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God." For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
Revelation	19:11	Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse! The one sitting on it is called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
Revelation	19:12	His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself.
Revelation	19:13	He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God.
Revelation	19:14	And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses.
Revelation	19:15	From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
Revelation	19:16	On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of kings and Lord of lords.
Revelation	19:17	Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly directly overhead, "Come, gather for the great supper of God,
Revelation	19:18	to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great."
Revelation	19:19	And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the horse and against his army.
Revelation	19:20	And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet who in its presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
Revelation	19:21	And the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse, and all the birds were gorged with their flesh.
Revelation	20:1	Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain.
Revelation	20:2	And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years,
Revelation	20:3	and threw him into the pit, and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he might not deceive the nations any longer, until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while.
Revelation	20:4	Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Revelation	20:5	The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
Revelation	20:6	Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.
Revelation	20:7	And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison
Revelation	20:8	and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
Revelation	20:9	And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, but fire came down from heaven and consumed them,
Revelation	20:10	and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Revelation	20:11	Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them.
Revelation	20:12	And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done.
Revelation	20:13	And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done.
Revelation	20:14	Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
Revelation	20:15	And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.
Revelation	21:1	Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.
Revelation	21:2	And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
Revelation	21:3	And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, "Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
Revelation	21:4	He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away."
Revelation	21:5	And he who was seated on the throne said, "Behold, I am making all things new." Also he said, "Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true."
Revelation	21:6	And he said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.
Revelation	21:7	The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
Revelation	21:8	But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death."
Revelation	21:9	Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, "Come, I will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb."
Revelation	21:10	And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God,
Revelation	21:11	having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
Revelation	21:12	It had a great, high wall, with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed--
Revelation	21:13	on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
Revelation	21:14	And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Revelation	21:15	And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls.
Revelation	21:16	The city lies foursquare; its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod, 12,000 stadia. Its length and width and height are equal.
Revelation	21:17	He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement.
Revelation	21:18	The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass.
Revelation	21:19	The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,
Revelation	21:20	the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
Revelation	21:21	And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass.
Revelation	21:22	And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb.
Revelation	21:23	And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb.
Revelation	21:24	By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it,
Revelation	21:25	and its gates will never be shut by day--and there will be no night there.
Revelation	21:26	They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations.
Revelation	21:27	But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.
Revelation	22:1	Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb
Revelation	22:2	through the middle of the street of the city; also, on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
Revelation	22:3	No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him.
Revelation	22:4	They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
Revelation	22:5	And night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever.
Revelation	22:6	And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place."
Revelation	22:7	"And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book."
Revelation	22:8	I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me,
Revelation	22:9	but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God."
Revelation	22:10	And he said to me, "Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.
Revelation	22:11	Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy."
Revelation	22:12	"Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay everyone for what he has done.
Revelation	22:13	I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end."
Revelation	22:14	Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates.
Revelation	22:15	Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
Revelation	22:16	"I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star."
Revelation	22:17	The Spirit and the Bride say, "Come." And let the one who hears say, "Come." And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price.
Revelation	22:18	I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book,
Revelation	22:19	and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book.
Revelation	22:20	He who testifies to these things says, "Surely I am coming soon." Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
Revelation	22:21	The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen.