Congregational worship is the purpose of the Church.  We can worship by giving a gift, sitting in a hospital waiting room, or singing to each other about the Master.  We can also worship by vehemently keeping a schedule, uniting in hatred of the Enemy, and extoling each others virtues.  Of course, the former are what we ought to encourage within the congregation.  However, as I watch events unfold if we aren't really driving toward the latter.

Music serves to open our selves up.  It creates the conduit through which doctrine can flow.  This is why words are so important: once opened we must fill our selves with good stuff.  This is also why we must sing to each other: it is proof and provision of the Spirit - His similar work in the lives of others.
	{1Pet 4:10} But music is only one piece of the puzzle.  A servant may begin worshipping by setting up chairs, an administrator may begin worshipping by planning events and sharing that with others, a giver may begin worshipping by dropping an envelope in the plate, a teacher may begin to worship by giving a Word.  The Worship Leader is truly in charge of this menagerie.
	Furthermore, those who lead ought to do so with skill so as not to distract.  Excellence, in Biblical terms, means A) appointing one skilled to do the work {1Chr 15:22}, and B) performing with such skill that they do not distract themselves or others {Ex 31:3}{Ex 35:35}{Ps 33:3}.

It is important to draw the distinction between music and song.  Song is the content which is deposited by the music.  One thing we do well is curating songs.
	There has been much discussion regarding musical styles.  This is moot until we reconcile issues with technology and order of service.  The greatest disctraction has been the sound from the amplification system.  Neither is it trivial that we begin with a subdued announcer, then [expectantly] a high-energy song, then a seminary lecture (:~)...this roller coaster ride has an effect and sends a message.
	Assuming we traverse that marsh (which is a good assumption), we do have musical issues.  These issues are humility and energy.  Humility can only be learned or milled: i.e. modeled by leadership or being ground into pulp and re-baked.  This modeling is non-existent.  Energy comes from direction (worship leader) and comfort.  Musicians must practice, whether you hold them accountable [or not] is another matter, in order to be comfortable and __undistracted__ in the service.
	My opinion: the church should engage aleatory music.  Pre-written, strictly codified music is too constraining for non-professional musicians (requiring precise conjunctions throughout the service).  This is paradigm shift that closely follows the practice but requires a much different focus.

The congregation should have a choir (opining).  This is not a performing choir but, rather, a group of people who love to sing and are willing to meet in order to learn songs and singing.  A choir practice would look like this:
	1. Lesson on the doctrine of worship, singing, or music
	2. Exposition of doctrines in our songs' lyrics
	3. Discussion of the usage of the songs in worship = when & why they are used
	4. Learn & practice our songs with harmonies and variations

Another opinion: all spoken content should be curated.  We already curate songs, we should also curate prayers and calls to worship.  This does two things: it calms the nerves (which most of us get) and it ensures good content.  Of course this can't be a hard-n-fast rule because some people are very good at extemporaneous speaking/praying.  But, Heaven forbid that we assume that prayers and calls to worship must be impromptu!

Martin Luther and Keith Getty both hold singing as the primary congregational teaching tool.  Martin-Lloyd Jones and Bob Kauflin always chose the songs for their services.
	I reject the usage of the title "Worship Leader" for anyone but an elder.  In 1st Chronicles 15-16 David takes the role of the Worship Leader.  This encompasses far more than music or song.  It also requires far more maturity and implies stricter standards for life and personal doctrine.

## Mmhmm

Finally, as I have shared with both of you: I perpetually struggle with pride in this area because I believe myself to be capable of serving in this area of song leader yet I was not chosen to do so.  Moreover it baffles me why you selected someone as Worship Leader who is neither a capable musician nor leader.  Our Sovereign is easefully in control but decisions and the ramifications thereof are ours.
	I sit by and watch this man make crass, inappropriate jokes in the fellowship, argue with fellow team members, and never provide spiritual leadership.  My wonder is this: Am I wrong (that did happen once)?  Am I the only one who notices?  Or, is everyone else simply willing to accept it?
	Hopefully, the answer is that I am so concentered on self that my mind invents problems so as to make sense of my feelings and that schemes for glory.  But there are more and more niggles that wholly remind me of corporate power struggles and nepotism rather than the familiar flow of events and wonder of a divine appointment.
You are my pastors: set me straight!
